102
The little boy returned home happy and pleased, and weeks and
days passed away, and nods were made to the old house, and from
the old house, and then the little boy went over there again.
The carved trumpeters blew, “Trateratra! There is the little boy!
Trateratra!” and the swords and armor on the knights’ portraits
rattled, and the silk gowns rustled; the hog’s leather spoke, and the
old chairs had the gout in their legs and rheumatism in their backs:
Ugh! it was exactly like the first time, for over there one day and
hour was just like another.
“I cannot bear it!” said the pewter soldier. “I have shed pewter
tears! It is too melancholy! Rather let me go to the wars and lose
arms and legs! It would at least be a change. I cannot bear it longer!
Now, I know what it is to have a visit from one’s old thoughts, with
what they may bring with them! I have had a visit from mine, and
you may be sure it is no pleasant thing in the end; I was at last about
to jump down from the drawers.
“I saw you all over there at home so distinctly, as if you really were
here; it was again that Sunday morning; all you children stood before the table and sung your Psalms, as you do every morning. You
stood devoutly with folded hands; and father and mother were just
as pious; and then the door was opened, and little sister Mary, who
is not two years old yet, and who always dances when she hears
music or singing, of whatever kind it may be, was put into the
room though she ought not to have been there and then she
began to dance, but could not keep time, because the tones were so
long; and then she stood, first on the one leg, and bent her head
forwards, and then on the other leg, and bent her head forwards 
but all would not do. You stood very seriously all together, although
it was difficult enough; but I laughed to myself, and then I fell off
the table, and got a bump, which I have still for it was not right of
me to laugh. But the whole now passes before me again in thought,
and everything that I have lived to see; and these are the old thoughts,
with what they may bring with them.
“Tell me if you still sing on Sundays? Tell me something about
little Mary! And how my comrade, the other pewter soldier, lives!
Yes, he is happy enough, that’s sure! I cannot bear it any longer!”
“You are given away as a present!” said the little boy. “You must