103
remain. Can you not understand that?”
The old man now came with a drawer, in which there was much
to be seen, both “tin boxes” and “balsam boxes,” old cards, so large
and so gilded, such as one never sees them now. And several drawers
were opened, and the piano was opened; it had landscapes on the
inside of the lid, and it was so hoarse when the old man played on
it! and then he hummed a song.
“Yes, she could sing that!” said he, and nodded to the portrait,
which he had bought at the broker’s, and the old man’s eyes shone
so bright!
“I will go to the wars! I will go to the wars!” shouted the pewter
soldier as loud as he could, and threw himself off the drawers right
down on the floor. What became of him? The old man sought, and
the little boy sought; he was away, and he stayed away.
“I shall find him!” said the old man; but he never found him. The
floor was too open the pewter soldier had fallen through a crevice, and there he lay as in an open tomb.
That day passed, and the little boy went home, and that week
passed, and several weeks too. The windows were quite frozen, the
little boy was obliged to sit and breathe on them to get a peep-hole
over to the old house, and there the snow had been blown into all
the carved work and inscriptions; it lay quite up over the steps, just
as if there was no one at home nor was there any one at home 
the old man was dead!
In the evening there was a hearse seen before the door, and he was
borne into it in his coffin: he was now to go out into the country, to
lie in his grave. He was driven out there, but no one followed; all his
friends were dead, and the little boy kissed his hand to the coffin as
it was driven away.
Some days afterwards there was an auction at the old house, and
the little boy saw from his window how they carried the old knights
and the old ladies away, the flower-pots with the long ears, the old
chairs, and the old clothes-presses. Something came here, and something came there; the portrait of her who had been found at the
broker’s came to the broker’s again; and there it hung, for no one
knew her more no one cared about the old picture.
In the spring they pulled the house down, for, as people said, it