107
The old white snails were the first persons of distinction in the
world, that they knew; the forest was planted for their sake, and the
manor-house was there that they might be boiled and laid on a
silver dish.
Now they lived a very lonely and happy life; and as they had no
children themselves, they had adopted a little common snail, which
they brought up as their own; but the little one would not grow, for
he was of a common family; but the old ones, especially Dame
Mother Snail, thought they could observe how he increased in size,
and she begged father, if he could not see it, that he would at least
feel the little snail’s shell; and then he felt it, and found the good
dame was right.
One day there was a heavy storm of rain.
“Hear how it beats like a drum on the dock-leaves!” said Father
Snail.
“There are also rain-drops!” said Mother Snail. “And now the rain
pours right down the stalk! You will see that it will be wet here! I am
very happy to think that we have our good house, and the little one
has his also! There is more done for us than for all other creatures,
sure enough; but can you not see that we are folks of quality in the
world? We are provided with a house from our birth, and the burdock forest is planted for our sakes! I should like to know how far it
extends, and what there is outside!”
“There is nothing at all,” said Father Snail. “No place can be better than ours, and I have nothing to wish for!”
“Yes,” said the dame. “I would willingly go to the manorhouse, be
boiled, and laid on a silver dish; all our forefathers have been treated
so; there is something extraordinary in it, you may be sure!”
“The manor-house has most likely fallen to ruin!” said Father Snail.
“Or the burdocks have grown up over it, so that they cannot come
out. There need not, however, be any haste about that; but you are
always in such a tremendous hurry, and the little one is beginning
to be the same. Has he not been creeping up that stalk these three
days? It gives me a headache when I look up to him!”
“You must not scold him,” said Mother Snail. “He creeps so carefully; he will afford us much pleasure and we have nothing but
him to live for! But have you not thought of it? Where shall we get