108
a wife for him? Do you not think that there are some of our species
at a great distance in the interior of the burdock forest?”
“Black snails, I dare say, there are enough of,” said the old one.
“Black snails without a house but they are so common, and so
conceited. But we might give the ants a commission to look out for
us; they run to and fro as if they had something to do, and they
certainly know of a wife for our little snail!”
“I know one, sure enough the most charming one!” said one of
the ants. “But I am afraid we shall hardly succeed, for she is a queen!”
“That is nothing!” said the old folks. “Has she a house?”
“She has a palace!” said the ant. “The finest ant’s palace, with
seven hundred passages!”
“I thank you!” said Mother Snail. “Our son shall not go into an
ant-hill; if you know nothing better than that, we shall give the
commission to the white gnats. They fly far and wide, in rain and
sunshine; they know the whole forest here, both within and without.”
“We have a wife for him,” said the gnats. “At a hundred human
paces from here there sits a little snail in her house, on a gooseberry
bush; she is quite lonely, and old enough to be married. It is only a
hundred human paces!”
“Well, then, let her come to him!” said the old ones. “He has a
whole forest of burdocks, she has only a bush!”
And so they went and fetched little Miss Snail. It was a whole
week before she arrived; but therein was just the very best of it, for
one could thus see that she was of the same species.
And then the marriage was celebrated. Six earth-worms shone as
well as they could. In other respects the whole went off very quietly,
for the old folks could not bear noise and merriment; but old Dame
Snail made a brilliant speech. Father Snail could not speak, he was
too much affected; and so they gave them as a dowry and inheritance, the whole forest of burdocks, and said what they had always
said that it was the best in the world; and if they lived honestly
and decently, and increased and multiplied, they and their children
would once in the course of time come to the manor-house, be
boiled black, and laid on silver dishes. After this speech was made,
the old ones crept into their shells, and never more came out. They