111
But the poor mother ran out of the house and cried aloud for her
child.
Out there, in the midst of the snow, there sat a woman in long,
black clothes; and she said, “Death has been in thy chamber, and I
saw him hasten away with thy little child; he goes faster than the
wind, and he never brings back what he takes!”
“Oh, only tell me which way he went!” said the mother. “Tell me
the way, and I shall find him!”
“I know it!” said the woman in the black clothes. “But before I tell
it, thou must first sing for me all the songs thou hast sung for thy
child! I am fond of them. I have heard them before; I am Night; I saw
thy tears whilst thou sang’st them!”
“I will sing them all, all!” said the mother. “But do not stop me
now I may overtake him I may find my child!”
But Night stood still and mute. Then the mother wrung her hands,
sang and wept, and there were many songs, but yet many more
tears; and then Night said, “Go to the right, into the dark pine
forest; thither I saw Death take his way with thy little child!”
The roads crossed each other in the depths of the forest, and she
no longer knew whither she should go! then there stood a thornbush; there was neither leaf nor flower on it, it was also in the cold
winter season, and ice-flakes hung on the branches.
“Hast thou not seen Death go past with my little child?” said the
mother.
“Yes,” said the thorn-bush; “but I will not tell thee which way he
took, unless thou wilt first warm me up at thy heart. I am freezing
to death; I shall become a lump of ice!”
And she pressed the thorn-bush to her breast, so firmly, that it
might be thoroughly warmed, and the thorns went right into her
flesh, and her blood flowed in large drops, but the thornbush shot
forth fresh green leaves, and there came flowers on it in the cold
winter night, the heart of the afflicted mother was so warm; and the
thorn-bush told her the way she should go.
She then came to a large lake, where there was neither ship nor
boat. The lake was not frozen sufficiently to bear her; neither was it
open, nor low enough that she could wade through it; and across it
she must go if she would find her child! Then she lay down to drink