112
up the lake, and that was an impossibility for a human being, but
the afflicted mother thought that a miracle might happen nevertheless.
“Oh, what would I not give to come to my child!” said the weeping mother; and she wept still more, and her eyes sunk down in the
depths of the waters, and became two precious pearls; but the water
bore her up, as if she sat in a swing, and she flew in the rocking
waves to the shore on the opposite side, where there stood a milebroad, strange house, one knew not if it were a mountain with forests and caverns, or if it were built up; but the poor mother could
not see it; she had wept her eyes out.
“Where shall I find Death, who took away my little child?” said
she.
“He has not come here yet!” said the old grave woman, who was
appointed to look after Death’s great greenhouse! “How have you
been able to find the way hither? And who has helped you?”
“Our Lord has helped me,” said she. “He is merciful, and you will
also be so! Where shall I find my little child?”
“Nay, I know not,” said the woman, “and you cannot see! Many
flowers and trees have withered this night; Death will soon come and
plant them over again! You certainly know that every person has his
or her life’s tree or flower, just as everyone happens to be settled; they
look like other plants, but they have pulsations of the heart. Children’s
hearts can also beat; go after yours, perhaps you may know your child’s;
but what will you give me if I tell you what you shall do more?”
“I have nothing to give,” said the afflicted mother, “but I will go
to the world’s end for you!”
“Nay, I have nothing to do there!” said the woman. “But you can
give me your long black hair; you know yourself that it is fine, and
that I like! You shall have my white hair instead, and that’s always
something!”
“Do you demand nothing else?” said she. “That I will gladly give
you!” And she gave her her fine black hair, and got the old woman’s
snow-white hair instead.
So they went into Death’s great greenhouse, where flowers and
trees grew strangely into one another. There stood fine hyacinths
under glass bells, and there stood strong-stemmed peonies; there
