113
grew water plants, some so fresh, others half sick, the water-snakes
lay down on them, and black crabs pinched their stalks. There stood
beautiful palm-trees, oaks, and plantains; there stood parsley and
flowering thyme: every tree and every flower had its name; each of
them was a human life, the human frame still lived one in China,
and another in Greenland round about in the world. There were
large trees in small pots, so that they stood so stunted in growth,
and ready to burst the pots; in other places, there was a little dull
flower in rich mould, with moss round about it, and it was so petted
and nursed. But the distressed mother bent down over all the smallest plants, and heard within them how the human heart beat; and
amongst millions she knew her child’s.
“There it is!” cried she, and stretched her hands out over a little
blue crocus, that hung quite sickly on one side.
“Don’t touch the flower!” said the old woman. “But place yourself
here, and when Death comes I expect him every moment do
not let him pluck the flower up, but threaten him that you will do
the same with the others. Then he will be afraid! He is responsible
for them to Our Lord, and no one dares to pluck them up before
HE gives leave.”
All at once an icy cold rushed through the great hall, and the
blind mother could feel that it was Death that came.
“How hast thou been able to find thy way hither?” he asked. “How
couldst thou come quicker than I?”
“I am a mother,” said she.
And Death stretched out his long hand towards the fine little
flower, but she held her hands fast around his, so tight, and yet
afraid that she should touch one of the leaves. Then Death blew on
her hands, and she felt that it was colder than the cold wind, and
her hands fell down powerless.
“Thou canst not do anything against me!” said Death.
“But Our Lord can!” said she.
“I only do His bidding!” said Death. “I am His gardener, I take all
His flowers and trees, and plant them out in the great garden of
Paradise, in the unknown land; but how they grow there, and how
it is there I dare not tell thee.”
“Give me back my child!” said the mother, and she wept and