116
sunshine, and was then laid on the ironing-blanket; then came the
warm box-iron. “Dear lady!” said the collar. “Dear widow-lady! I
feel quite hot. I am quite changed. I begin to unfold myself. You
will burn a hole in me. Oh! I offer you my hand.”
“Rag!” said the box-iron; and went proudly over the collar: for she
fancied she was a steam-engine, that would go on the railroad and
draw the waggons. “Rag!” said the box-iron.
The collar was a little jagged at the edge, and so came the long
scissors to cut off the jagged part. “Oh!” said the collar. “You are
certainly the first opera dancer. How well you can stretch your legs
out! It is the most graceful performance I have ever seen. No one
can imitate you.”
“I know it,” said the scissors.
“You deserve to be a baroness,” said the collar. “All that I have is a
fine gentleman, a boot-jack, and a hair-comb. If I only had the
barony!”
“Do you seek my hand?” said the scissors; for she was angry; and
without more ado, she cut him, and then he was condemned.
“I shall now be obliged to ask the hair-comb. It is surprising how
well you preserve your teeth, Miss,” said the collar. “Have you never
thought of being betrothed?”
“Yes, of course! you may be sure of that,” said the hair-comb. “I
am betrothed to the boot-jack!”
“Betrothed!” exclaimed the collar. Now there was no other to court,
and so he despised it.
A long time passed away, then the collar came into the rag chest at
the paper mill; there was a large company of rags, the fine by themselves, and the coarse by themselves, just as it should be. They all
had much to say, but the collar the most; for he was a real boaster.
“I have had such an immense number of sweethearts!” said the
collar. “I could not be in peace! It is true, I was always a fine starchedup gentleman! I had both a boot-jack and a hair-comb, which I
never used! You should have seen me then, you should have seen me
when I lay down! I shall never forget my first love she was a girdle,
so fine, so soft, and so charming, she threw herself into a tub of
water for my sake! There was also a widow, who became glowing
hot, but I left her standing till she got black again; there was also the