119
and down the street. Tailors, and shoemakers, and all the folks, moved
out into the street chairs and tables were brought forth and
candles burnt yes, above a thousand lights were burning and
the one talked and the other sung; and people walked and churchbells rang, and asses went along with a dingle-dingle-dong! for they
too had bells on. The street boys were screaming and hooting, and
shouting and shooting, with devils and detonating balls and there
came corpse bearers and hood wearers for there were funerals with
psalm and hymn and then the din of carriages driving and company arriving: yes, it was, in truth, lively enough down in the street.
Only in that single house, which stood opposite that in which the
learned foreigner lived, it was quite still; and yet some one lived
there, for there stood flowers in the balcony they grew so well in
the sun’s heat! and that they could not do unless they were watered and some one must water them there must be somebody
there. The door opposite was also opened late in the evening, but it
was dark within, at least in the front room; further in there was
heard the sound of music. The learned foreigner thought it quite
marvellous, but now it might be that he only imagined it for he
found everything marvellous out there, in the warm lands, if there
had only been no sun. The stranger’s landlord said that he didn’t
know who had taken the house opposite, one saw no person about,
and as to the music, it appeared to him to be extremely tiresome. “It
is as if some one sat there, and practised a piece that he could not
master always the same piece. ‘I shall master it!’ says he; but yet he
cannot master it, however long he plays.”
One night the stranger awoke he slept with the doors of the
balcony open the curtain before it was raised by the wind, and he
thought that a strange lustre came from the opposite neighbor’s
house; all the flowers shone like flames, in the most beautiful colors, and in the midst of the flowers stood a slender, graceful maiden 
it was as if she also shone; the light really hurt his eyes. He now
opened them quite wide yes, he was quite awake; with one spring
he was on the floor; he crept gently behind the curtain, but the
maiden was gone; the flowers shone no longer, but there they stood,
fresh and blooming as ever; the door was ajar, and, far within, the
music sounded so soft and delightful, one could really melt away in