124
“I beg your pardon,” said the learned man; “it is an old habit with
me. You are perfectly right, and I shall remember it; but now you
must tell me all you saw!”
“Everything!” said the shadow. “For I saw everything, and I know
everything!”
“How did it look in the furthest saloon?” asked the learned man.
“Was it there as in the fresh woods? Was it there as in a holy church?
Were the saloons like the starlit firmament when we stand on the
high mountains?”
“Everything was there!” said the shadow. “I did not go quite in, I
remained in the foremost room, in the twilight, but I stood there
quite well; I saw everything, and I know everything! I have been in
the antechamber at the court of Poesy.”
“But what did you see? Did all the gods of the olden times pass
through the large saloons? Did the old heroes combat there? Did
sweet children play there, and relate their dreams?”
“I tell you I was there, and you can conceive that I saw everything
there was to be seen. Had you come over there, you would not have
been a man; but I became so! And besides, I learned to know my
inward nature, my innate qualities, the relationship I had with Poesy.
At the time I was with you, I thought not of that, but always you
know it well when the sun rose, and when the sun went down, I
became so strangely great; in the moonlight I was very near being
more distinct than yourself; at that time I did not understand my
nature; it was revealed to me in the antechamber! I became a man! I
came out matured; but you were no longer in the warm lands; as a
man I was ashamed to go as I did. I was in want of boots, of clothes,
of the whole human varnish that makes a man perceptible. I took
my way I tell it to you, but you will not put it in any book I
took my way to the cake woman I hid myself behind her; the
woman didn’t think how much she concealed. I went out first in the
evening; I ran about the streets in the moonlight; I made myself
long up the walls it tickles the back so delightfully! I ran up, and
ran down, peeped into the highest windows, into the saloons, and
on the roofs, I peeped in where no one could peep, and I saw what
no one else saw, what no one else should see! This is, in fact, a base
world! I would not be a man if it were not now once accepted and