125
regarded as something to be so! I saw the most unimaginable things
with the women, with the men, with parents, and with the sweet,
matchless children; I saw,” said the shadow, “what no human being
must know, but what they would all so willingly know what is
bad in their neighbor. Had I written a newspaper, it would have
been read! But I wrote direct to the persons themselves, and there
was consternation in all the towns where I came. They were so afraid
of me, and yet they were so excessively fond of me. The professors
made a professor of me; the tailors gave me new clothes I am well
furnished; the master of the mint struck new coin for me, and the
women said I was so handsome! And so I became the man I am.
And I now bid you farewell. Here is my card I live on the sunny
side of the street, and am always at home in rainy weather!” And so
away went the shadow. “That was most extraordinary!” said the
learned man. Years and days passed away, then the shadow came
again. “How goes it?” said the shadow.
“Alas!” said the learned man. “I write about the true, and the good,
and the beautiful, but no one cares to hear such things; I am quite
desperate, for I take it so much to heart!”
“But I don’t!” said the shadow. “I become fat, and it is that one
wants to become! You do not understand the world. You will become ill by it. You must travel! I shall make a tour this summer; will
you go with me? I should like to have a travelling companion! Will
you go with me, as shadow? It will be a great pleasure for me to have
you with me; I shall pay the travelling expenses!”
“Nay, this is too much!” said the learned man.
“It is just as one takes it!” said the shadow. “It will do you much
good to travel! Will you be my shadow? You shall have everything
free on the journey!”
“Nay, that is too bad!” said the learned man.
“But it is just so with the world!” said the shadow, “and so it will
be!” and away it went again.
The learned man was not at all in the most enviable state; grief
and torment followed him, and what he said about the true, and
the good, and the beautiful, was, to most persons, like roses for a
cow! He was quite ill at last.
“You really look like a shadow!” said his friends to him; and the