126
learned man trembled, for he thought of it.
“You must go to a watering-place!” said the shadow, who came
and visited him. “There is nothing else for it! I will take you with
me for old acquaintance’ sake; I will pay the travelling expenses,
and you write the descriptions and if they are a little amusing for
me on the way! I will go to a watering-place my beard does not
grow out as it ought that is also a sickness and one must have a
beard! Now you be wise and accept the offer; we shall travel as comrades!”
And so they travelled; the shadow was master, and the master was
the shadow; they drove with each other, they rode and walked together, side by side, before and behind, just as the sun was; the
shadow always took care to keep itself in the master’s place. Now
the learned man didn’t think much about that; he was a very kindhearted man, and particularly mild and friendly, and so he said one
day to the shadow: “As we have now become companions, and in
this way have grown up together from childhood, shall we not drink
‘thou’ together, it is more familiar?”
“You are right,” said the shadow, who was now the proper master.
“It is said in a very straight-forward and well-meant manner. You, as
a learned man, certainly know how strange nature is. Some persons
cannot bear to touch grey paper, or they become ill; others shiver in
every limb if one rub a pane of glass with a nail: I have just such a
feeling on hearing you say thou to me; I feel myself as if pressed to
the earth in my first situation with you. You see that it is a feeling;
that it is not pride: I cannot allow you to say thou to me, but I will
willingly say thou to you, so it is half done!”
So the shadow said thou to its former master.
“This is rather too bad,” thought he, “that I must say you and he
say thou,” but he was now obliged to put up with it.
So they came to a watering-place where there were many strangers, and amongst them was a princess, who was troubled with seeing too well; and that was so alarming!
She directly observed that the stranger who had just come was
quite a different sort of person to all the others; “He has come here
in order to get his beard to grow, they say, but I see the real cause, he
cannot cast a shadow.”