127
She had become inquisitive; and so she entered into conversation
directly with the strange gentleman, on their promenades. As the
daughter of a king, she needed not to stand upon trifles, so she said,
“Your complaint is, that you cannot cast a shadow?”
“Your Royal Highness must be improving considerably,” said the
shadow, “I know your complaint is, that you see too clearly, but it
has decreased, you are cured. I just happen to have a very unusual
shadow! Do you not see that person who always goes with me? Other
persons have a common shadow, but I do not like what is common
to all. We give our servants finer cloth for their livery than we ourselves use, and so I had my shadow trimmed up into a man: yes, you
see I have even given him a shadow. It is somewhat expensive, but I
like to have something for myself!”
“What!” thought the princess. “Should I really be cured! These
baths are the first in the world! In our time water has wonderful
powers. But I shall not leave the place, for it now begins to be amusing here. I am extremely fond of that stranger: would that his beard
should not grow, for in that case he will leave us!”
In the evening, the princess and the shadow danced together in
the large ball-room. She was light, but he was still lighter; she had
never had such a partner in the dance. She told him from what land
she came, and he knew that land; he had been there, but then she
was not at home; he had peeped in at the window, above and below he had seen both the one and the other, and so he could answer the princess, and make insinuations, so that she was quite astonished; he must be the wisest man in the whole world! She felt
such respect for what he knew! So that when they again danced
together she fell in love with him; and that the shadow could remark, for she almost pierced him through with her eyes. So they
danced once more together; and she was about to declare herself,
but she was discreet; she thought of her country and kingdom, and
of the many persons she would have to reign over.
“He is a wise man,” said she to herself ”It is well; and he dances
delightfully that is also good; but has he solid knowledge? That is
just as important! He must be examined.”
So she began, by degrees, to question him about the most difficult things she could think of, and which she herself could not have