131
above her she had only the roof, through which the wind whistled,
even though the largest cracks were stopped up with straw and rags.
Her little hands were almost numbed with cold. Oh! a match
might afford her a world of comfort, if she only dared take a single
one out of the bundle, draw it against the wall, and warm her fingers by it. She drew one out. “Rischt!” how it blazed, how it burnt!
It was a warm, bright flame, like a candle, as she held her hands over
it: it was a wonderful light. It seemed really to the little maiden as
though she were sitting before a large iron stove, with burnished
brass feet and a brass ornament at top. The fire burned with such
blessed influence; it warmed so delightfully. The little girl had already stretched out her feet to warm them too; but the small flame
went out, the stove vanished: she had only the remains of the burnt
out match in her hand.
She rubbed another against the wall: it burned brightly, and where
the light fell on the wall, there the wall became transparent like a
veil, so that she could see into the room. On the table was spread a
snow-white tablecloth; upon it was a splendid porcelain service, and
the roast goose was steaming famously with its stuffing of apple and
dried plums. And what was still more capital to behold was, the
goose hopped down from the dish, reeled about on the floor with
knife and fork in its breast, till it came up to the poor little girl;
when the match went out and nothing but the thick, cold, damp
wall was left behind. She lighted another match. Now there she was
sitting under the most magnificent Christmas tree: it was still larger,
and more decorated than the one which she had seen through the
glass door in the rich merchant’s house.
Thousands of lights were burning on the green branches, and gaily colored pictures, such as she had seen in the shop-windows, looked
down upon her. The little maiden stretched out her hands towards
them when the match went out. The lights of the Christmas tree
rose higher and higher, she saw them now as stars in heaven; one fell
down and formed a long trail of fire.
“Someone is just dead!” said the little girl; for her old grandmother,
the only person who had loved her, and who was now no more, had
told her, that when a star falls, a soul ascends to God.
She drew another match against the wall: it was again light, and