139
down from the lap where he was sitting, and danced round the kind
old poet.
“You are a merry fellow,” said the old man. “What’s your name?”
“My name is Cupid,” answered the boy. “Don’t you know me?
There lies my bow; it shoots well, I can assure you! Look, the weather
is now clearing up, and the moon is shining clear again through the
window.”
“Why, your bow is quite spoiled,” said the old poet.
“That were sad indeed,” said the boy, and he took the bow in his
hand and examined it on every side. “Oh, it is dry again, and is not
hurt at all; the string is quite tight. I will try it directly.” And he bent
his bow, took aim, and shot an arrow at the old poet, right into his
heart. “You see now that my bow was not spoiled,” said he laughing;
and away he ran.
The naughty boy, to shoot the old poet in that way; he who had
taken him into his warm room, who had treated him so kindly, and
who had given him warm wine and the very best apples!
The poor poet lay on the earth and wept, for the arrow had really
flown into his heart.
“Fie!” said he. “How naughty a boy Cupid is! I will tell all children about him, that they may take care and not play with him, for
he will only cause them sorrow and many a heartache.”
And all good children to whom he related this story, took great
heed of this naughty Cupid; but he made fools of them still, for he
is astonishingly cunning. When the university students come from
the lectures, he runs beside them in a black coat, and with a book
under his arm. It is quite impossible for them to know him, and
they walk along with him arm in arm, as if he, too, were a student
like themselves; and then, unperceived, he thrusts an arrow to their
bosom. When the young maidens come from being examined by
the clergyman, or go to church to be confirmed, there he is again
close behind them. Yes, he is forever following people. At the play,
he sits in the great chandelier and burns in bright flames, so that
people think it is really a flame, but they soon discover it is something else. He roves about in the garden of the palace and upon the
ramparts: yes, once he even shot your father and mother right in the
heart. Ask them only and you will hear what they’ll tell you. Oh, he