14
While the conversation turned on this subject, and was only for a
moment interrupted by the arrival of a journal that contained nothing worth reading, we will just step out into the antechamber, where
cloaks, mackintoshes, sticks, umbrellas, and shoes, were deposited.
Here sat two female figures, a young and an old one. One might
have thought at first they were servants come to accompany their
mistresses home; but on looking nearer, one soon saw they could
scarcely be mere servants; their forms were too noble for that, their
skin too fine, the cut of their dress too striking. Two fairies were
they; the younger, it is true, was not Dame Fortune herself, but one
of the waiting-maids of her handmaidens who carry about the lesser
good things that she distributes; the other looked extremely
gloomy it was Care. She always attends to her own serious business herself, as then she is sure of having it done properly.
They were telling each other, with a confidential interchange of
ideas, where they had been during the day. The messenger of Fortune had only executed a few unimportant commissions, such as
saving a new bonnet from a shower of rain, etc.; but what she had
yet to perform was something quite unusual.
“I must tell you,” said she, “that to-day is my birthday; and in
honor of it, a pair of walking-shoes or galoshes has been entrusted
to me, which I am to carry to mankind. These shoes possess the
property of instantly transporting him who has them on to the place
or the period in which he most wishes to be; every wish, as regards
time or place, or state of being, will be immediately fulfilled, and so
at last man will be happy, here below.”
“Do you seriously believe it?” replied Care, in a severe tone of
reproach. “No; he will be very unhappy, and will assuredly bless the
moment when he feels that he has freed himself from the fatal shoes.”
“Stupid nonsense!” said the other angrily. “I will put them here by
the door. Some one will make a mistake for certain and take the
wrong ones he will be a happy man.”
Such was their conversation.