142
world can be compared with red shoes.
Now Karen was old enough to be confirmed; she had new clothes
and was to have new shoes also. The rich shoemaker in the city took
the measure of her little foot. This took place at his house, in his
room; where stood large glass-cases, filled with elegant shoes and
brilliant boots. All this looked charming, but the old lady could not
see well, and so had no pleasure in them. In the midst of the shoes
stood a pair of red ones, just like those the princess had worn. How
beautiful they were! The shoemaker said also they had been made
for the child of a count, but had not fitted.
“That must be patent leather!” said the old lady. “They shine so!”
“Yes, they shine!” said Karen, and they fitted, and were bought,
but the old lady knew nothing about their being red, else she would
never have allowed Karen to have gone in red shoes to be confirmed.
Yet such was the case.
Everybody looked at her feet; and when she stepped through the
chancel door on the church pavement, it seemed to her as if the old
figures on the tombs, those portraits of old preachers and preachers’
wives, with stiff ruffs, and long black dresses, fixed their eyes on her
red shoes. And she thought only of them as the clergyman laid his
hand upon her head, and spoke of the holy baptism, of the covenant with God, and how she should be now a matured Christian;
and the organ pealed so solemnly; the sweet children’s voices sang,
and the old music-directors sang, but Karen only thought of her red
shoes.
In the afternoon, the old lady heard from everyone that the shoes
had been red, and she said that it was very wrong of Karen, that it
was not at all becoming, and that in future Karen should only go in
black shoes to church, even when she should be older.
The next Sunday there was the sacrament, and Karen looked at
the black shoes, looked at the red ones looked at them again, and
put on the red shoes.
The sun shone gloriously; Karen and the old lady walked along
the path through the corn; it was rather dusty there.
At the church door stood an old soldier with a crutch, and with a
wonderfully long beard, which was more red than white, and he
bowed to the ground, and asked the old lady whether he might dust