145
And then she confessed her entire sin, and the executioner struck
off her feet with the red shoes, but the shoes danced away with the
little feet across the field into the deep wood.
And he carved out little wooden feet for her, and crutches, taught
her the psalm criminals always sing; and she kissed the hand which
had wielded the axe, and went over the heath.
“Now I have suffered enough for the red shoes!” said she. “Now I
will go into the church that people may see me!” And she hastened
towards the church door: but when she was near it, the red shoes
danced before her, and she was terrified, and turned round. The
whole week she was unhappy, and wept many bitter tears; but when
Sunday returned, she said, “Well, now I have suffered and struggled
enough! I really believe I am as good as many a one who sits in the
church, and holds her head so high!”
And away she went boldly; but she had not got farther than the
churchyard gate before she saw the red shoes dancing before her;
and she was frightened, and turned back, and repented of her sin
from her heart.
And she went to the parsonage, and begged that they would take
her into service; she would be very industrious, she said, and would
do everything she could; she did not care about the wages, only she
wished to have a home, and be with good people. And the clergyman’s
wife was sorry for her and took her into service; and she was industrious and thoughtful. She sat still and listened when the clergyman
read the Bible in the evenings. All the children thought a great deal
of her; but when they spoke of dress, and grandeur, and beauty, she
shook her head.
The following Sunday, when the family was going to church, they
asked her whether she would not go with them; but she glanced
sorrowfully, with tears in her eyes, at her crutches. The family went
to hear the word of God; but she went alone into her little chamber;
there was only room for a bed and chair to stand in it; and here she
sat down with her Prayer-Book; and whilst she read with a pious
mind, the wind bore the strains of the organ towards her, and she
raised her tearful countenance, and said, “O God, help me!”
And the sun shone so clearly, and straight before her stood the
angel of God in white garments, the same she had seen that night at