15
II. What Happened to the Councillor
It was late; Councillor Knap, deeply occupied with the times of King
Hans, intended to go home, and malicious Fate managed matters so
that his feet, instead of finding their way to his own galoshes, slipped
into those of Fortune. Thus caparisoned the good man walked out of
the well-lighted rooms into East Street. By the magic power of the
shoes he was carried back to the times of King Hans; on which account his foot very naturally sank in the mud and puddles of the
street, there having been in those days no pavement in Copenhagen.
“Well! This is too bad! How dirty it is here!” sighed the Councillor. “As to a pavement, I can find no traces of one, and all the lamps,
it seems, have gone to sleep.”
The moon was not yet very high; it was besides rather foggy, so
that in the darkness all objects seemed mingled in chaotic confusion. At the next corner hung a votive lamp before a Madonna, but
the light it gave was little better than none at all; indeed, he did not
observe it before he was exactly under it, and his eyes fell upon the
bright colors of the pictures which represented the well-known group
of the Virgin and the infant Jesus.
“That is probably a wax-work show,” thought he; “and the people
delay taking down their sign in hopes of a late visitor or two.”
A few persons in the costume of the time of King Hans passed
quickly by him.
“How strange they look! The good folks come probably from a
masquerade!”
Suddenly was heard the sound of drums and fifes; the bright blaze
of a fire shot up from time to time, and its ruddy gleams seemed to
contend with the bluish light of the torches. The Councillor stood
still, and watched a most strange procession pass by. First came a
dozen drummers, who understood pretty well how to handle their
instruments; then came halberdiers, and some armed with crossbows. The principal person in the procession was a priest. Astonished at what he saw, the Councillor asked what was the meaning of
all this mummery, and who that man was.
“That’s the Bishop of Zealand,” was the answer.