16
“Good Heavens! What has taken possession of the Bishop?” sighed
the Councillor, shaking his head. It certainly could not be the Bishop;
even though he was considered the most absent man in the whole
kingdom, and people told the drollest anecdotes about him. Reflecting on the matter, and without looking right or left, the Councillor went through East Street and across the Habro-Platz. The
bridge leading to Palace Square was not to be found; scarcely trusting his senses, the nocturnal wanderer discovered a shallow piece of
water, and here fell in with two men who very comfortably were
rocking to and fro in a boat.
“Does your honor want to cross the ferry to the Holme?” asked
they.
“Across to the Holme!” said the Councillor, who knew nothing of
the age in which he at that moment was. “No, I am going to
Christianshafen, to Little Market Street.”
Both men stared at him in astonishment.
“Only just tell me where the bridge is,” said he. “It is really unpardonable that there are no lamps here; and it is as dirty as if one had
to wade through a morass.”
The longer he spoke with the boatmen, the more unintelligible
did their language become to him.
“I don’t understand your Bornholmish dialect,” said he at last,
angrily, and turning his back upon them. He was unable to find the
bridge: there was no railway either. “It is really disgraceful what a
state this place is in,” muttered he to himself. Never had his age,
with which, however, he was always grumbling, seemed so miserable as on this evening. “I’ll take a hackney-coach!” thought he. But
where were the hackney-coaches? Not one was to be seen.
“I must go back to the New Market; there, it is to be hoped, I
shall find some coaches; for if I don’t, I shall never get safe to
Christianshafen.”
So off he went in the direction of East Street, and had nearly got
to the end of it when the moon shone forth.
“God bless me! What wooden scaffolding is that which they have
set up there?” cried he involuntarily, as he looked at East Gate, which,
in those days, was at the end of East Street.
He found, however, a little side-door open, and through this he