19
“May I ask with whom I have the pleasure of speaking?” asked the
Councillor.
“I am a Bachelor in Theologia,” answered the gentleman with a
stiff reverence.
This reply fully satisfied the Councillor; the title suited the dress.
“He is certainly,” thought he, “some village schoolmaster some
queer old fellow, such as one still often meets with in Jutland.”
“This is no locus docendi, it is true,” began the clerical gentleman; “yet I beg you earnestly to let us profit by your learning. Your
reading in the ancients is, sine dubio, of vast extent?”
“Oh yes, I’ve read something, to be sure,” replied the Councillor.
“I like reading all useful works; but I do not on that account despise
the modern ones; ’tis only the unfortunate ‘Tales of Every-day Life’
that I cannot bear we have enough and more than enough such in
reality.”
“‘Tales of Every-day Life?’” said our Bachelor inquiringly.
“I mean those new fangled novels, twisting and writhing themselves in the dust of commonplace, which also expect to find a reading public.”
“Oh,” exclaimed the clerical gentleman smiling, “there is much
wit in them; besides they are read at court. The King likes the history of Sir Iffven and Sir Gaudian particularly, which treats of King
Arthur, and his Knights of the Round Table; he has more than once
joked about it with his high vassals.”
“I have not read that novel,” said the Councillor; “it must be quite
a new one, that Heiberg has published lately.”
“No,” answered the theologian of the time of King Hans: “that
book is not written by a Heiberg, but was imprinted by Godfrey
von Gehmen.”
“Oh, is that the author’s name?” said the Councillor. “It is a very
old name, and, as well as I recollect, he was the first printer that
appeared in Denmark.”
“Yes, he is our first printer,” replied the clerical gentleman hastily.
So far all went on well. Some one of the worthy burghers now
spoke of the dreadful pestilence that had raged in the country a few
years back, meaning that of 1484. The Councillor imagined it was
the cholera that was meant, which people made so much fuss about;