20
and the discourse passed off satisfactorily enough. The war of the
buccaneers of 1490 was so recent that it could not fail being alluded
to; the English pirates had, they said, most shamefully taken their
ships while in the roadstead; and the Councillor, before whose eyes
the Herostratic* event of 1801 still floated vividly, agreed entirely
with the others in abusing the rascally English. With other topics he
was not so fortunate; every moment brought about some new confusion, and threatened to become a perfect Babel; for the worthy
Bachelor was really too ignorant, and the simplest observations of
the Councillor sounded to him too daring and phantastical. They
looked at one another from the crown of the head to the soles of the
feet; and when matters grew to too high a pitch, then the Bachelor
talked Latin, in the hope of being better understood but it was of
no use after all.
“What’s the matter?” asked the Hostess, plucking the Councillor
by the sleeve; and now his recollection returned, for in the course of
the conversation he had entirely forgotten all that had preceded it.
“Merciful God, where am I!” exclaimed he in agony; and while he
so thought, all his ideas and feelings of overpowering dizziness,
against which he struggled with the utmost power of desperation,
encompassed him with renewed force. “Let us drink claret and mead,
and Bremen beer,” shouted one of the guests ”and you shall drink
with us!”
Two maidens approached. One wore a cap of two staring colors,
denoting the class of persons to which she belonged. They poured
out the liquor, and made the most friendly gesticulations; while a
cold perspiration trickled down the back of the poor Councillor.
“What’s to be the end of this! What’s to become of me!” groaned
he; but he was forced, in spite of his opposition, to drink with the
rest. They took hold of the worthy man; who, hearing on every side
that he was intoxicated, did not in the least doubt the truth of this
certainly not very polite assertion; but on the contrary, implored
the ladies and gentlemen present to procure him a hackney-coach: