24
the shoes that caused the metamorphosis by means of which, unknown to himself, he took upon him the thoughts and feelings of
the officer; but, as we have just seen, he felt himself in his new
situation much less contented, and now preferred the very thing
which but some minutes before he had rejected. So then the watchman was again watchman.
“That was an unpleasant dream,” said he; “but ’twas droll enough
altogether. I fancied that I was the lieutenant over there: and yet the
thing was not very much to my taste after all. I missed my good old
mother and the dear little ones; who almost tear me to pieces for
sheer love.”
He seated himself once more and nodded: the dream continued
to haunt him, for he still had the shoes on his feet. A falling star
shone in the dark firmament.
“There falls another star,” said he: “but what does it matter; there
are always enough left. I should not much mind examining the little
glimmering things somewhat nearer, especially the moon; for that
would not slip so easily through a man’s fingers. When we die so
at least says the student, for whom my wife does the washing we
shall fly about as light as a feather from one such a star to the other.
That’s, of course, not true: but ’twould be pretty enough if it were
so. If I could but once take a leap up there, my body might stay here
on the steps for what I care.”
Behold there are certain things in the world to which one ought
never to give utterance except with the greatest caution; but doubly
careful must one be when we have the Shoes of Fortune on our feet.
Now just listen to what happened to the watchman.
As to ourselves, we all know the speed produced by the employment of steam; we have experienced it either on railroads, or in
boats when crossing the sea; but such a flight is like the travelling of
a sloth in comparison with the velocity with which light moves. It
flies nineteen million times faster than the best race-horse; and yet
electricity is quicker still. Death is an electric shock which our heart
receives; the freed soul soars upwards on the wings of electricity.
The sun’s light wants eight minutes and some seconds to perform a
journey of more than twenty million of our Danish* miles; borne