25
by electricity, the soul wants even some minutes less to accomplish
the same flight. To it the space between the heavenly bodies is not
greater than the distance between the homes of our friends in town
is for us, even if they live a short way from each other; such an
electric shock in the heart, however, costs us the use of the body
here below; unless, like the watchman of East Street, we happen to
have on the Shoes of Fortune.
In a few seconds the watchman had done the fifty-two thousand
of our miles up to the moon, which, as everyone knows, was formed
out of matter much lighter than our earth; and is, so we should say,
as soft as newly-fallen snow. He found himself on one of the many
circumjacent mountain-ridges with which we are acquainted by
means of Dr. Madler’s “Map of the Moon.” Within, down it sunk
perpendicularly into a caldron, about a Danish mile in depth; while
below lay a town, whose appearance we can, in some measure, realize to ourselves by beating the white of an egg in a glass of water.
The matter of which it was built was just as soft, and formed similar
towers, and domes, and pillars, transparent and rocking in the thin
air; while above his head our earth was rolling like a large fiery ball.
He perceived immediately a quantity of beings who were certainly
what we call “men”; yet they looked different to us. A far more
correct imagination than that of the pseudo-Herschel* had created
them; and if they had been placed in rank and file, and copied by
some skilful painter’s hand, one would, without doubt, have exclaimed involuntarily, “What a beautiful arabesque!”
Probably a translation of the celebrated Moon hoax, written by
Richard A. Locke, and originally published in New York.
They had a language too; but surely nobody can expect that the soul
of the watchman should understand it. Be that as it may, it did comprehend it; for in our souls there germinate far greater powers than we
poor mortals, despite all our cleverness, have any notion of. Does she
not show us she the queen in the land of enchantment her astounding dramatic talent in all our dreams? There every acquaintance appears