29
more. His first feeling was of anger; his next that his temper fell to
zero. The Shoes of Fortune had placed him in the most dreadfu
situation; and, unfortunately, it never occurred to him to wish himself free. The pitch-black clouds poured down their contents in still
heavier torrents; not a creature was to be seen in the streets. To
reach up to the bell was what he did not like; to cry aloud for help
would have availed him little; besides, how ashamed would he have
been to be found caught in a trap, like an outwitted fox! How was
he to twist himself through! He saw clearly that it was his irrevocable destiny to remain a prisoner till dawn, or, perhaps, even late in
the morning; then the smith must be fetched to file away the bars;
but all that would not be done so quickly as he could think about it.
The whole Charity School, just opposite, would be in motion; all
the new booths, with their not very courtier-like swarm of seamen,
would join them out of curiosity, and would greet him with a wild
“hurrah!” while he was standing in his pillory: there would be a
mob, a hissing, and rejoicing, and jeering, ten times worse than in
the rows about the Jews some years ago ”Oh, my blood is mounting to my brain; ’tis enough to drive one mad! I shall go wild! I
know not what to do. Oh! were I but loose; my dizziness would
then cease; oh, were my head but loose!”
You see he ought to have said that sooner; for the moment he
expressed the wish his head was free; and cured of all his paroxysms
of love, he hastened off to his room, where the pains consequent on
the fright the Shoes had prepared for him, did not so soon take their
leave.
But you must not think that the affair is over now; it grows much
worse.
The night passed, the next day also; but nobody came to fetch the
Shoes.
In the evening “Dramatic Readings” were to be given at the little
theatre in King Street. The house was filled to suffocation; and among
other pieces to be recited was a new poem by H. C. Andersen, called,
My Aunt’s Spectacles; the contents of which were pretty nearly as
follows:
“A certain person had an aunt, who boasted of particular skill in
fortune-telling with cards, and who was constantly being stormed