3
never confess that I could not see the stuff.”
“Well, Sir Minister!” said one of the knaves, still pretending to
work. “You do not say whether the stuff pleases you.”
“Oh, it is excellent!” replied the old minister, looking at the loom
through his spectacles. “This pattern, and the colors, yes, I will tell
the Emperor without delay, how very beautiful I think them.”
“We shall be much obliged to you,” said the impostors, and then
they named the different colors and described the pattern of the
pretended stuff. The old minister listened attentively to their words,
in order that he might repeat them to the Emperor; and then the
knaves asked for more silk and gold, saying that it was necessary to
complete what they had begun. However, they put all that was given
them into their knapsacks; and continued to work with as much
apparent diligence as before at their empty looms.
The Emperor now sent another officer of his court to see how the
men were getting on, and to ascertain whether the cloth would soon
be ready. It was just the same with this gentleman as with the minister; he surveyed the looms on all sides, but could see nothing at all
but the empty frames.
“Does not the stuff appear as beautiful to you, as it did to my lord
the minister?” asked the impostors of the Emperor’s second ambassador; at the same time making the same gestures as before, and
talking of the design and colors which were not there.
“I certainly am not stupid!” thought the messenger. “It must be,
that I am not fit for my good, profitable office! That is very odd;
however, no one shall know anything about it.” And accordingly he
praised the stuff he could not see, and declared that he was delighted with both colors and patterns. “Indeed, please your Imperial Majesty,” said he to his sovereign when he returned, “the cloth
which the weavers are preparing is extraordinarily magnificent.”
The whole city was talking of the splendid cloth which the Emperor had ordered to be woven at his own expense.
And now the Emperor himself wished to see the costly manufacture, while it was still in the loom. Accompanied by a select number
of officers of the court, among whom were the two honest men who
had already admired the cloth, he went to the crafty impostors,
who, as soon as they were aware of the Emperor’s approach, went