30
by persons that wanted to have a peep into futurity. But she was full
of mystery about her art, in which a certain pair of magic spectacles
did her essential service. Her nephew, a merry boy, who was his
aunt’s darling, begged so long for these spectacles, that, at last, she
lent him the treasure, after having informed him, with many exhortations, that in order to execute the interesting trick, he need only
repair to some place where a great many persons were assembled;
and then, from a higher position, whence he could overlook the
crowd, pass the company in review before him through his spectacles. Immediately ‘the inner man’ of each individual would be
displayed before him, like a game of cards, in which he unerringly
might read what the future of every person presented was to be.
Well pleased the little magician hastened away to prove the powers
of the spectacles in the theatre; no place seeming to him more fitted
for such a trial. He begged permission of the worthy audience, and
set his spectacles on his nose. A motley phantasmagoria presents
itself before him, which he describes in a few satirical touches, yet
without expressing his opinion openly: he tells the people enough
to set them all thinking and guessing; but in order to hurt nobody,
he wraps his witty oracular judgments in a transparent veil, or rather
in a lurid thundercloud, shooting forth bright sparks of wit, that
they may fall in the powder-magazine of the expectant audience.”
The humorous poem was admirably recited, and the speaker much
applauded. Among the audience was the young man of the hospital, who seemed to have forgotten his adventure of the preceding
night. He had on the Shoes; for as yet no lawful owner had appeared to claim them; and besides it was so very dirty out-of-doors,
they were just the thing for him, he thought.
The beginning of the poem he praised with great generosity: he
even found the idea original and effective. But that the end of it,
like the Rhine, was very insignificant, proved, in his opinion, the
author’s want of invention; he was without genius, etc. This was an
excellent opportunity to have said something clever.
Meanwhile he was haunted by the idea he should like to possess
such a pair of spectacles himself; then, perhaps, by using them circumspectly, one would be able to look into people’s hearts, which,
he thought, would be far more interesting than merely to see what