31
was to happen next year; for that we should all know in proper
time, but the other never.
“I can now,” said he to himself, “fancy the whole row of ladies and
gentlemen sitting there in the front row; if one could but see into
their hearts yes, that would be a revelation a sort of bazar. In
that lady yonder, so strangely dressed, I should find for certain a
large milliner’s shop; in that one the shop is empty, but it wants
cleaning plain enough. But there would also be some good stately
shops among them. Alas!” sighed he, “I know one in which all is
stately; but there sits already a spruce young shopman, which is the
only thing that’s amiss in the whole shop. All would be splendidly
decked out, and we should hear, ‘Walk in, gentlemen, pray walk in;
here you will find all you please to want.’ Ah! I wish to Heaven I
could walk in and take a trip right through the hearts of those
present!”
And behold! to the Shoes of Fortune this was the cue; the whole
man shrunk together and a most uncommon journey through the
hearts of the front row of spectators, now began. The first heart
through which he came, was that of a middle-aged lady, but he
instantly fancied himself in the room of the “Institution for the
cure of the crooked and deformed,” where casts of mis-shapen limbs
are displayed in naked reality on the wall. Yet there was this difference, in the institution the casts were taken at the entry of the patient; but here they were retained and guarded in the heart while
the sound persons went away. They were, namely, casts of female
friends, whose bodily or mental deformities were here most faithfully preserved.
With the snake-like writhings of an idea he glided into another
female heart; but this seemed to him like a large holy fane.* The
white dove of innocence fluttered over the altar. How gladly would
he have sunk upon his knees; but he must away to the next heart;
yet he still heard the pealing tones of the organ, and he himself
seemed to have become a newer and a better man; he felt unworthy
to tread the neighboring sanctuary which a poor garret, with a sick
bed-rid mother, revealed. But God’s warm sun streamed through
the open window; lovely roses nodded from the wooden flower