32
boxes on the roof, and two sky-blue birds sang rejoicingly, while the
sick mother implored God’s richest blessings on her pious daughter.
He now crept on hands and feet through a butcher’s shop; at least
on every side, and above and below, there was nought but flesh. It
was the heart of a most respectable rich man, whose name is certain
to be found in the Directory.
He was now in the heart of the wife of this worthy gentleman. It
was an old, dilapidated, mouldering dovecot. The husband’s portrait was used as a weather-cock, which was connected in some way
or other with the doors, and so they opened and shut of their own
accord, whenever the stern old husband turned round.
Hereupon he wandered into a boudoir formed entirely of mirrors, like the one in Castle Rosenburg; but here the glasses magnified to an astonishing degree. On the floor, in the middle of the
room, sat, like a Dalai-Lama, the insignificant “Self ” of the person,
quite confounded at his own greatness. He then imagined he had
got into a needle-case full of pointed needles of every size.
“This is certainly the heart of an old maid,” thought he. But he
was mistaken. It was the heart of a young military man; a man, as
people said, of talent and feeling.
In the greatest perplexity, he now came out of the last heart in the
row; he was unable to put his thoughts in order, and fancied that his
too lively imagination had run away with him.
“Good Heavens!” sighed he. “I have surely a disposition to madness ’tis dreadfully hot here; my blood boils in my veins and my
head is burning like a coal.” And he now remembered the important
event of the evening before, how his head had got jammed in between the iron railings of the hospital. “That’s what it is, no doubt,”
said he. “I must do something in time: under such circumstances a
Russian bath might do me good. I only wish I were already on the
upper bank.”*
And so there he lay on the uppermost bank in the vapor-bath; but
with all his clothes on, in his boots and galoshes, while the hot