36
feelings almost as disquieting as they are refreshing.”
He felt in his pocket for the papers. “These police-reports will
soon stem the torrent of my ideas, and effectually hinder any rebellious overflowing of the time-worn banks of official duties”; he said
to himself consolingly, while his eye ran over the first page. “Dame
Tigbrith, tragedy in five acts.” “What is that? And yet it is undeniably my own handwriting. Have I written the tragedy? Wonderful,
very wonderful! And this what have I here? ‘Intrigue on the Ramparts; or The Day of Repentance: vaudeville with new songs to the
most favorite airs.’ The deuce! Where did I get all this rubbish?
Some one must have slipped it slyly into my pocket for a joke. There
is too a letter to me; a crumpled letter and the seal broken.”
Yes; it was not a very polite epistle from the manager of a theatre,
in which both pieces were flatly refused.
“Hem! hem!” said the clerk breathlessly, and quite exhausted he
seated himself on a bank. His thoughts were so elastic, his heart so
tender; and involuntarily he picked one of the nearest flowers. It is
a simple daisy, just bursting out of the bud. What the botanist tells
us after a number of imperfect lectures, the flower proclaimed in a
minute. It related the mythus of its birth, told of the power of the
sun-light that spread out its delicate leaves, and forced them to impregnate the air with their incense and then he thought of the
manifold struggles of life, which in like manner awaken the budding flowers of feeling in our bosom. Light and air contend with
chivalric emulation for the love of the fair flower that bestowed her
chief favors on the latter; full of longing she turned towards the
light, and as soon as it vanished, rolled her tender leaves together
and slept in the embraces of the air. “It is the light which adorns
me,” said the flower.
“But ’tis the air which enables thee to breathe,” said the poet’s
voice.
Close by stood a boy who dashed his stick into a wet ditch. The
drops of water splashed up to the green leafy roof, and the clerk
thought of the million of ephemera which in a single drop were
thrown up to a height, that was as great doubtless for their size, as
for us if we were to be hurled above the clouds. While he thought of
this and of the whole metamorphosis he had undergone, he smiled