37
and said, “I sleep and dream; but it is wonderful how one can dream
so naturally, and know besides so exactly that it is but a dream. If
only to-morrow on awaking, I could again call all to mind so vividly! I seem in unusually good spirits; my perception of things is
clear, I feel as light and cheerful as though I were in heaven; but I
know for a certainty, that if to-morrow a dim remembrance of it
should swim before my mind, it will then seem nothing but stupid
nonsense, as I have often experienced already especially before I
enlisted under the banner of the police, for that dispels like a whirlwind all the visions of an unfettered imagination. All we hear or say
in a dream that is fair and beautiful is like the gold of the subterranean spirits; it is rich and splendid when it is given us, but viewed
by daylight we find only withered leaves. Alas!” he sighed quite sorrowful, and gazed at the chirping birds that hopped contentedly
from branch to branch, “they are much better off than I! To fly
must be a heavenly art; and happy do I prize that creature in which
it is innate. Yes! Could I exchange my nature with any other creature, I fain would be such a happy little lark!”
He had hardly uttered these hasty words when the skirts and sleeves
of his coat folded themselves together into wings; the clothes became feathers, and the galoshes claws. He observed it perfectly, and
laughed in his heart. “Now then, there is no doubt that I am dreaming; but I never before was aware of such mad freaks as these.” And
up he flew into the green roof and sang; but in the song there was
no poetry, for the spirit of the poet was gone. The Shoes, as is the
case with anybody who does what he has to do properly, could only
attend to one thing at a time. He wanted to be a poet, and he was
one; he now wished to be a merry chirping bird: but when he was
metamorphosed into one, the former peculiarities ceased immediately. “It is really pleasant enough,” said he: “the whole day long I sit
in the office amid the driest law-papers, and at night I fly in my
dream as a lark in the gardens of Fredericksburg; one might really
write a very pretty comedy upon it.” He now fluttered down into
the grass, turned his head gracefully on every side, and with his bill
pecked the pliant blades of grass, which, in comparison to his present
size, seemed as majestic as the palm-branches of northern Africa.
Unfortunately the pleasure lasted but a moment. Presently black