38
night overshadowed our enthusiast, who had so entirely missed his
part of copying-clerk at a police-office; some vast object seemed to
be thrown over him. It was a large oil-skin cap, which a sailor-boy
of the quay had thrown over the struggling bird; a coarse hand sought
its way carefully in under the broad rim, and seized the clerk over
the back and wings. In the first moment of fear, he called, indeed, as
loud as he could ”You impudent little blackguard! I am a copying-clerk at the police-office; and you know you cannot insult any
belonging to the constabulary force without a chastisement. Besides, you good-for-nothing rascal, it is strictly forbidden to catch
birds in the royal gardens of Fredericksburg; but your blue uniform
betrays where you come from.” This fine tirade sounded, however,
to the ungodly sailor-boy like a mere “Pippi-pi.” He gave the noisy
bird a knock on his beak, and walked on.
He was soon met by two schoolboys of the upper class that is to
say as individuals, for with regard to learning they were in the lowest class in the school; and they bought the stupid bird. So the copying-clerk came to Copenhagen as guest, or rather as prisoner in a
family living in Gother Street.
“’Tis well that I’m dreaming,” said the clerk, “or I really should
get angry. First I was a poet; now sold for a few pence as a lark; no
doubt it was that accursed poetical nature which has metamorphosed
me into such a poor harmless little creature. It is really pitiable,
particularly when one gets into the hands of a little blackguard,
perfect in all sorts of cruelty to animals: all I should like to know is,
how the story will end.”
The two schoolboys, the proprietors now of the transformed clerk,
carried him into an elegant room. A stout stately dame received them
with a smile; but she expressed much dissatisfaction that a common
field-bird, as she called the lark, should appear in such high society.
For to-day, however, she would allow it; and they must shut him in
the empty cage that was standing in the window. “Perhaps he will
amuse my good Polly,” added the lady, looking with a benignant smile
at a large green parrot that swung himself backwards and forwards
most comfortably in his ring, inside a magnificent brass-wired cage.
“To-day is Polly’s birthday,” said she with stupid simplicity: “and the
little brown field-bird must wish him joy.”