4
on working more diligently than ever; although they still did not
pass a single thread through the looms.
“Is not the work absolutely magnificent?” said the two officers of
the crown, already mentioned. “If your Majesty will only be pleased
to look at it! What a splendid design! What glorious colors!” and at
the same time they pointed to the empty frames; for they imagined
that everyone else could see this exquisite piece of workmanship.
“How is this?” said the Emperor to himself. “I can see nothing!
This is indeed a terrible affair! Am I a simpleton, or am I unfit to be
an Emperor? That would be the worst thing that could happenOh! the cloth is charming,” said he, aloud. “It has my complete
approbation.” And he smiled most graciously, and looked closely at
the empty looms; for on no account would he say that he could not
see what two of the officers of his court had praised so much. All his
retinue now strained their eyes, hoping to discover something on
the looms, but they could see no more than the others; nevertheless,
they all exclaimed, “Oh, how beautiful!” and advised his majesty to
have some new clothes made from this splendid material, for the
approaching procession. “Magnificent! Charming! Excellent!” resounded on all sides; and everyone was uncommonly gay. The Emperor shared in the general satisfaction; and presented the impostors with the riband of an order of knighthood, to be worn in their
button-holes, and the title of “Gentlemen Weavers.”
The rogues sat up the whole of the night before the day on which
the procession was to take place, and had sixteen lights burning, so
that everyone might see how anxious they were to finish the
Emperor’s new suit. They pretended to roll the cloth off the looms;
cut the air with their scissors; and sewed with needles without any
thread in them. “See!” cried they, at last. “The Emperor’s new clothes
are ready!”
And now the Emperor, with all the grandees of his court, came to
the weavers; and the rogues raised their arms, as if in the act of
holding something up, saying, “Here are your Majesty’s trousers!
Here is the scarf! Here is the mantle! The whole suit is as light as a
cobweb; one might fancy one has nothing at all on, when dressed in
it; that, however, is the great virtue of this delicate cloth.”
“Yes indeed!” said all the courtiers, although not one of them could