40
discretion does not take such lofty flights, and utter such high natural tones. For this they have covered you over—they never do the
like to me; for I cost more. Besides, they are afraid of my beak; and
I have always a witty answer at hand. Come, let us be men!”
“O warm spicy land of my birth,” sang the Canary bird; “I will sing
of thy dark-green bowers, of the calm bays where the pendent boughs
kiss the surface of the water; I will sing of the rejoicing of all my
brothers and sisters where the cactus grows in wanton luxuriance.”
“Spare us your elegiac tones,” said the Parrot giggling. “Rather
speak of something at which one may laugh heartily. Laughing is an
infallible sign of the highest degree of mental development. Can a
dog, or a horse laugh? No, but they can cry. The gift of laughing was
given to man alone. Ha! ha! ha!” screamed Polly, and added his
stereotype witticism. “Come, let us be men!”
“Poor little Danish grey-bird,” said the Canary; “you have been
caught too. It is, no doubt, cold enough in your woods, but there at
least is the breath of liberty; therefore fly away. In the hurry they
have forgotten to shut your cage, and the upper window is open.
Fly, my friend; fly away. Farewell!”
Instinctively the Clerk obeyed; with a few strokes of his wings he
was out of the cage; but at the same moment the door, which was
only ajar, and which led to the next room, began to creak, and supple
and creeping came the large tomcat into the room, and began to
pursue him. The frightened Canary fluttered about in his cage; the
Parrot flapped his wings, and cried, “Come, let us be men!” The
Clerk felt a mortal fright, and flew through the window, far away
over the houses and streets. At last he was forced to rest a little.
The neighboring house had a something familiar about it; a window stood open; he flew in; it was his own room. He perched upon
the table.
“Come, let us be men!” said he, involuntarily imitating the chatter of the Parrot, and at the same moment he was again a copyingclerk; but he was sitting in the middle of the table.
“Heaven help me!” cried he. “How did I get up here—and so
buried in sleep, too? After all, that was a very unpleasant, disagreeable dream that haunted me! The whole story is nothing but silly,
stupid nonsense!”
