40
Mr. Polly uttered not a syllable in reply, but swung to and fro with
dignified condescension; while a pretty canary, as yellow as gold,
that had lately been brought from his sunny fragrant home, began
to sing aloud.
“Noisy creature! Will you be quiet!” screamed the lady of the house,
covering the cage with an embroidered white pocket handkerchief.
“Chirp, chirp!” sighed he. “That was a dreadful snowstorm”; and
he sighed again, and was silent.
The copying-clerk, or, as the lady said, the brown field-bird, was
put into a small cage, close to the Canary, and not far from “my
good Polly.” The only human sounds that the Parrot could bawl out
were, “Come, let us be men!” Everything else that he said was as
unintelligible to everybody as the chirping of the Canary, except to
the clerk, who was now a bird too: he understood his companion
perfectly.
“I flew about beneath the green palms and the blossoming almond-trees,” sang the Canary; “I flew around, with my brothers
and sisters, over the beautiful flowers, and over the glassy lakes, where
the bright water-plants nodded to me from below. There, too, I saw
many splendidly-dressed paroquets, that told the drollest stories,
and the wildest fairy tales without end.”
“Oh! those were uncouth birds,” answered the Parrot. “They had
no education, and talked of whatever came into their head.
“If my mistress and all her friends can laugh at what I say, so may
you too, I should think. It is a great fault to have no taste for what is
witty or amusing come, let us be men.”
“Ah, you have no remembrance of love for the charming maidens
that danced beneath the outspread tents beside the bright fragrant
flowers? Do you no longer remember the sweet fruits, and the cooling juice in the wild plants of our never-to-be-forgotten home?”
said the former inhabitant of the Canary Isles, continuing his
dithyrambic.
“Oh, yes,” said the Parrot; “but I am far better off here. I am well
fed, and get friendly treatment. I know I am a clever fellow; and
that is all I care about. Come, let us be men. You are of a poetical
nature, as it is called I, on the contrary, possess profound knowledge and inexhaustible wit. You have genius; but clear-sighted, calm