41
VI. The Best That the Galoshes Gave
The following day, early in the morning, while the Clerk was still in
bed, someone knocked at his door. It was his neighbor, a young
Divine, who lived on the same floor. He walked in.
“Lend me your Galoshes,” said he; “it is so wet in the garden,
though the sun is shining most invitingly. I should like to go out a
little.”
He got the Galoshes, and he was soon below in a little duodecimo
garden, where between two immense walls a plumtree and an appletree were standing. Even such a little garden as this was considered
in the metropolis of Copenhagen as a great luxury.
The young man wandered up and down the narrow paths, as well
as the prescribed limits would allow; the clock struck six; without
was heard the horn of a post-boy.
“To travel! to travel!” exclaimed he, overcome by most painful and
passionate remembrances. “That is the happiest thing in the world!
That is the highest aim of all my wishes! Then at last would the agonizing restlessness be allayed, which destroys my existence! But it must
be far, far away! I would behold magnificent Switzerland; I would
travel to Italy, and ""
It was a good thing that the power of the Galoshes worked as
instantaneously as lightning in a powder-magazine would do, otherwise the poor man with his overstrained wishes would have travelled about the world too much for himself as well as for us. In
short, he was travelling. He was in the middle of Switzerland, but
packed up with eight other passengers in the inside of an eternallycreaking diligence; his head ached till it almost split, his weary neck
could hardly bear the heavy load, and his feet, pinched by his torturing boots, were terribly swollen. He was in an intermediate state
between sleeping and waking; at variance with himself, with his
company, with the country, and with the government. In his right
pocket he had his letter of credit, in the left, his passport, and in a
small leathern purse some double louis d’or, carefully sewn up in
the bosom of his waistcoat. Every dream proclaimed that one or the
other of these valuables was lost; wherefore he started up as in a