42
fever; and the first movement which his hand made, described a
magic triangle from the right pocket to the left, and then up towards the bosom, to feel if he had them all safe or not. From the
roof inside the carriage, umbrellas, walking-sticks, hats, and sundry
other articles were depending, and hindered the view, which was
particularly imposing. He now endeavored as well as he was able to
dispel his gloom, which was caused by outward chance circumstances
merely, and on the bosom of nature imbibe the milk of purest human enjoyment.
Grand, solemn, and dark was the whole landscape around. The
gigantic pine-forests, on the pointed crags, seemed almost like little
tufts of heather, colored by the surrounding clouds. It began to snow,
a cold wind blew and roared as though it were seeking a bride.
“Augh!” sighed he, “were we only on the other side the Alps, then
we should have summer, and I could get my letters of credit cashed.
The anxiety I feel about them prevents me enjoying Switzerland.
Were I but on the other side!”
And so saying he was on the other side in Italy, between Florence
and Rome. Lake Thracymene, illumined by the evening sun, lay
like flaming gold between the dark-blue mountain-ridges; here,
where Hannibal defeated Flaminius, the rivers now held each other
in their green embraces; lovely, half-naked children tended a herd
of black swine, beneath a group of fragrant laurel-trees, hard by the
road-side. Could we render this inimitable picture properly, then
would everybody exclaim, “Beautiful, unparalleled Italy!” But neither the young Divine said so, nor anyone of his grumbling companions in the coach of the vetturino.
The poisonous flies and gnats swarmed around by thousands; in
vain one waved myrtle-branches about like mad; the audacious insect population did not cease to sting; nor was there a single person
in the well-crammed carriage whose face was not swollen and sore
from their ravenous bites. The poor horses, tortured almost to death,
suffered most from this truly Egyptian plague; the flies alighted upon
them in large disgusting swarms; and if the coachman got down
and scraped them off, hardly a minute elapsed before they were
there again. The sun now set: a freezing cold, though of short duration pervaded the whole creation; it was like a horrid gust coming