43
from a burial-vault on a warm summer’s day but all around the
mountains retained that wonderful green tone which we see in some
old pictures, and which, should we not have seen a similar play of
color in the South, we declare at once to be unnatural. It was a
glorious prospect; but the stomach was empty, the body tired; all
that the heart cared and longed for was good night-quarters; yet
how would they be? For these one looked much more anxiously
than for the charms of nature, which every where were so profusely
displayed.
The road led through an olive-grove, and here the solitary inn was
situated. Ten or twelve crippled-beggars had encamped outside. The
healthiest of them resembled, to use an expression of Marryat’s,
“Hunger’s eldest son when he had come of age”; the others were
either blind, had withered legs and crept about on their hands, or
withered arms and fingerless hands. It was the most wretched misery, dragged from among the filthiest rags. “Excellenza, miserabili!”
sighed they, thrusting forth their deformed limbs to view. Even the
hostess, with bare feet, uncombed hair, and dressed in a garment of
doubtful color, received the guests grumblingly. The doors were fastened with a loop of string; the floor of the rooms presented a stone
paving half torn up; bats fluttered wildly about the ceiling; and as to
the smell therein no that was beyond description.
“You had better lay the cloth below in the stable,” said one of the
travellers; “there, at all events, one knows what one is breathing.”
The windows were quickly opened, to let in a little fresh air.
Quicker, however, than the breeze, the withered, sallow arms of the
beggars were thrust in, accompanied by the eternal whine of
“Miserabili, miserabili, excellenza!” On the walls were displayed innumerable inscriptions, written in nearly every language of Europe,
some in verse, some in prose, most of them not very laudatory of
“bella Italia.”
The meal was served. It consisted of a soup of salted water, seasoned with pepper and rancid oil. The last ingredient played a very
prominent part in the salad; stale eggs and roasted cocks’-combs
furnished the grand dish of the repast; the wine even was not without a disgusting taste it was like a medicinal draught.
At night the boxes and other effects of the passengers were placed