47
In autumn the wood-cutters always came and felled some of the
largest trees. This happened every year; and the young Fir Tree, that
had now grown to a very comely size, trembled at the sight; for the
magnificent great trees fell to the earth with noise and cracking, the
branches were lopped off, and the trees looked long and bare; they
were hardly to be recognised; and then they were laid in carts, and
the horses dragged them out of the wood.
Where did they go to? What became of them?
In spring, when the swallows and the storks came, the Tree asked
them, “Don’t you know where they have been taken? Have you not
met them anywhere?”
The swallows did not know anything about it; but the Stork looked
musing, nodded his head, and said, “Yes; I think I know; I met
many ships as I was flying hither from Egypt; on the ships were
magnificent masts, and I venture to assert that it was they that smelt
so of fir. I may congratulate you, for they lifted themselves on high
most majestically!”
“Oh, were I but old enough to fly across the sea! But how does the
sea look in reality? What is it like?”
“That would take a long time to explain,” said the Stork, and
with these words off he went.
“Rejoice in thy growth!” said the Sunbeams. “Rejoice in thy vigorous growth, and in the fresh life that moveth within thee!”
And the Wind kissed the Tree, and the Dew wept tears over him;
but the Fir understood it not.
When Christmas came, quite young trees were cut down: trees
which often were not even as large or of the same age as this Fir
Tree, who could never rest, but always wanted to be off. These young
trees, and they were always the finest looking, retained their branches;
they were laid on carts, and the horses drew them out of the wood.
“Where are they going to?” asked the Fir. “They are not taller
than I; there was one indeed that was considerably shorter; and why
do they retain all their branches? Whither are they taken?”
“We know! We know!” chirped the Sparrows. “We have peeped in
at the windows in the town below! We know whither they are taken!
The greatest splendor and the greatest magnificence one can imagine await them. We peeped through the windows, and saw them