48
planted in the middle of the warm room and ornamented with the
most splendid things, with gilded apples, with gingerbread, with
toys, and many hundred lights!”
“And then?” asked the Fir Tree, trembling in every bough. “And
then? What happens then?”
“We did not see anything more: it was incomparably beautiful.”
“I would fain know if I am destined for so glorious a career,” cried
the Tree, rejoicing. “That is still better than to cross the sea! What a
longing do I suffer! Were Christmas but come! I am now tall, and
my branches spread like the others that were carried off last year!
Oh! were I but already on the cart! Were I in the warm room with
all the splendor and magnificence! Yes; then something better, something still grander, will surely follow, or wherefore should they thus
ornament me? Something better, something still grander must follow but what? Oh, how I long, how I suffer! I do not know myself
what is the matter with me!”
“Rejoice in our presence!” said the Air and the Sunlight. “Rejoice
in thy own fresh youth!”
But the Tree did not rejoice at all; he grew and grew, and was
green both winter and summer. People that saw him said, “What a
fine tree!” and towards Christmas he was one of the first that was
cut down. The axe struck deep into the very pith; the Tree fell to the
earth with a sigh; he felt a pang it was like a swoon; he could not
think of happiness, for he was sorrowful at being separated from his
home, from the place where he had sprung up. He well knew that
he should never see his dear old comrades, the little bushes and
flowers around him, anymore; perhaps not even the birds! The departure was not at all agreeable.
The Tree only came to himself when he was unloaded in a courtyard with the other trees, and heard a man say, “That one is splendid! We don’t want the others.” Then two servants came in rich
livery and carried the Fir Tree into a large and splendid drawingroom. Portraits were hanging on the walls, and near the white porcelain stove stood two large Chinese vases with lions on the covers.
There, too, were large easy-chairs, silken sofas, large tables full of
picture-books and full of toys, worth hundreds and hundreds of
crowns at least the children said so. And the Fir Tree was stuck