53
daylight shone.
“Now a merry life will begin again,” thought the Tree. He felt the
fresh air, the first sunbeam and now he was out in the courtyard.
All passed so quickly, there was so much going on around him, the
Tree quite forgot to look to himself. The court adjoined a garden, and
all was in flower; the roses hung so fresh and odorous over the balustrade, the lindens were in blossom, the Swallows flew by, and said,
“Quirre-vit! My husband is come!” but it was not the Fir Tree that
they meant.
“Now, then, I shall really enjoy life,” said he exultingly, and spread
out his branches; but, alas, they were all withered and yellow! It was
in a corner that he lay, among weeds and nettles. The golden star of
tinsel was still on the top of the Tree, and glittered in the sunshine.
In the court-yard some of the merry children were playing who
had danced at Christmas round the Fir Tree, and were so glad at the
sight of him. One of the youngest ran and tore off the golden star.
“Only look what is still on the ugly old Christmas tree!” said he,
trampling on the branches, so that they all cracked beneath his feet.
And the Tree beheld all the beauty of the flowers, and the freshness in the garden; he beheld himself, and wished he had remained
in his dark corner in the loft; he thought of his first youth in the
wood, of the merry Christmas-eve, and of the little Mice who had
listened with so much pleasure to the story of Humpy-Dumpy.
“’Tis over ’tis past!” said the poor Tree. “Had I but rejoiced when
I had reason to do so! But now ’tis past, ’tis past!”
And the gardener’s boy chopped the Tree into small pieces; there
was a whole heap lying there. The wood flamed up splendidly under the large brewing copper, and it sighed so deeply! Each sigh was
like a shot.
The boys played about in the court, and the youngest wore the
gold star on his breast which the Tree had had on the happiest evening
of his life. However, that was over now the Tree gone, the story at
an end. All, all was over every tale must end at last.