55
And now it worked much more evil than before; for some of these
pieces were hardly so large as a grain of sand, and they flew about in
the wide world, and when they got into people’s eyes, there they
stayed; and then people saw everything perverted, or only had an
eye for that which was evil. This happened because the very smallest
bit had the same power which the whole mirror had possessed. Some
persons even got a splinter in their heart, and then it made one
shudder, for their heart became like a lump of ice. Some of the
broken pieces were so large that they were used for windowpanes,
through which one could not see one’s friends. Other pieces were
put in spectacles; and that was a sad affair when people put on their
glasses to see well and rightly. Then the wicked sprite laughed till he
almost choked, for all this tickled his fancy. The fine splinters still
flew about in the air: and now we shall hear what happened next.
Second Story. A Little Boy and a Little Girl
In a large town, where there are so many houses, and so many people,
that there is no roof left for everybody to have a little garden; and
where, on this account, most persons are obliged to content themselves with flowers in pots; there lived two little children, who had a
garden somewhat larger than a flower-pot. They were not brother
and sister; but they cared for each other as much as if they were.
Their parents lived exactly opposite. They inhabited two garrets;
and where the roof of the one house joined that of the other, and
the gutter ran along the extreme end of it, there was to each house a
small window: one needed only to step over the gutter to get from
one window to the other.
The children’s parents had large wooden boxes there, in which
vegetables for the kitchen were planted, and little rosetrees besides:
there was a rose in each box, and they grew splendidly. They now
thought of placing the boxes across the gutter, so that they nearly
reached from one window to the other, and looked just like two
walls of flowers. The tendrils of the peas hung down over the boxes;
and the rose-trees shot up long branches, twined round the windows, and then bent towards each other: it was almost like a triumphant