58
“What are you doing?” cried the little girl; and as he perceived her
fright, he pulled up another rose, got in at the window, and hastened off from dear little Gerda.
Afterwards, when she brought her picture-book, he asked, “What
horrid beasts have you there?” And if his grandmother told them
stories, he always interrupted her; besides, if he could manage it, he
would get behind her, put on her spectacles, and imitate her way of
speaking; he copied all her ways, and then everybody laughed at
him. He was soon able to imitate the gait and manner of everyone
in the street. Everything that was peculiar and displeasing in them 
that Kay knew how to imitate: and at such times all the people said,
“The boy is certainly very clever!” But it was the glass he had got in
his eye; the glass that was sticking in his heart, which made him
tease even little Gerda, whose whole soul was devoted to him.
His games now were quite different to what they had formerly
been, they were so very knowing. One winter’s day, when the flakes
of snow were flying about, he spread the skirts of his blue coat, and
caught the snow as it fell.
“Look through this glass, Gerda,” said he. And every flake seemed
larger, and appeared like a magnificent flower, or beautiful star; it
was splendid to look at!
“Look, how clever!” said Kay. “That’s much more interesting than
real flowers! They are as exact as possible; there is not a fault in
them, if they did not melt!”
It was not long after this, that Kay came one day with large gloves
on, and his little sledge at his back, and bawled right into Gerda’s
ears, “I have permission to go out into the square where the others
are playing”; and off he was in a moment.
There, in the market-place, some of the boldest of the boys used
to tie their sledges to the carts as they passed by, and so they were
pulled along, and got a good ride. It was so capital! Just as they were
in the very height of their amusement, a large sledge passed by: it
was painted quite white, and there was someone in it wrapped up in
a rough white mantle of fur, with a rough white fur cap on his head.
The sledge drove round the square twice, and Kay tied on his sledge
as quickly as he could, and off he drove with it. On they went quicker
and quicker into the next street; and the person who drove turned