59
round to Kay, and nodded to him in a friendly manner, just as if
they knew each other. Every time he was going to untie his sledge,
the person nodded to him, and then Kay sat quiet; and so on they
went till they came outside the gates of the town. Then the snow
began to fall so thickly that the little boy could not see an arm’s
length before him, but still on he went: when suddenly he let go the
string he held in his hand in order to get loose from the sledge, but
it was of no use; still the little vehicle rushed on with the quickness
of the wind. He then cried as loud as he could, but no one heard
him; the snow drifted and the sledge flew on, and sometimes it gave
a jerk as though they were driving over hedges and ditches. He was
quite frightened, and he tried to repeat the Lord’s Prayer; but all he
could do, he was only able to remember the multiplication table.
The snow-flakes grew larger and larger, till at last they looked just
like great white fowls. Suddenly they flew on one side; the large
sledge stopped, and the person who drove rose up. It was a lady; her
cloak and cap were of snow. She was tall and of slender figure, and
of a dazzling whiteness. It was the Snow Queen.
“We have travelled fast,” said she; “but it is freezingly cold. Come
under my bearskin.” And she put him in the sledge beside her,
wrapped the fur round him, and he felt as though he were sinking
in a snow-wreath.
“Are you still cold?” asked she; and then she kissed his forehead.
Ah! it was colder than ice; it penetrated to his very heart, which was
already almost a frozen lump; it seemed to him as if he were about
to die but a moment more and it was quite congenial to him, and
he did not remark the cold that was around him.
“My sledge! Do not forget my sledge!” It was the first thing he
thought of. It was there tied to one of the white chickens, who flew
along with it on his back behind the large sledge. The Snow Queen
kissed Kay once more, and then he forgot little Gerda, grandmother,
and all whom he had left at his home.
“Now you will have no more kisses,” said she, “or else I should
kiss you to death!”
Kay looked at her. She was very beautiful; a more clever, or a more
lovely countenance he could not fancy to himself; and she no longer
appeared of ice as before, when she sat outside the window, and