60
beckoned to him; in his eyes she was perfect, he did not fear her at
all, and told her that he could calculate in his head and with fractions, even; that he knew the number of square miles there were in
the different countries, and how many inhabitants they contained;
and she smiled while he spoke. It then seemed to him as if what he
knew was not enough, and he looked upwards in the large huge
empty space above him, and on she flew with him; flew high over
the black clouds, while the storm moaned and whistled as though it
were singing some old tune. On they flew over woods and lakes,
over seas, and many lands; and beneath them the chilling storm
rushed fast, the wolves howled, the snow crackled; above them flew
large screaming crows, but higher up appeared the moon, quite large
and bright; and it was on it that Kay gazed during the long long
winter’s night; while by day he slept at the feet of the Snow Queen.
Third Story. Of the Flower-Garden At the Old Woman’s Who
Understood Witchcraft
But what became of little Gerda when Kay did not return? Where
could he be? Nobody knew; nobody could give any intelligence. All
the boys knew was, that they had seen him tie his sledge to another
large and splendid one, which drove down the street and out of the
town. Nobody knew where he was; many sad tears were shed, and
little Gerda wept long and bitterly; at last she said he must be dead;
that he had been drowned in the river which flowed close to the
town. Oh! those were very long and dismal winter evenings!
At last spring came, with its warm sunshine.
“Kay is dead and gone!” said little Gerda.
“That I don’t believe,” said the Sunshine.
“Kay is dead and gone!” said she to the Swallows.
“That I don’t believe,” said they: and at last little Gerda did not
think so any longer either.
“I’ll put on my red shoes,” said she, one morning; “Kay has never
seen them, and then I’ll go down to the river and ask there.”
It was quite early; she kissed her old grandmother, who was still
asleep, put on her red shoes, and went alone to the river.