62
the large rapid river, to be driven about so in the wide world!” And
then the old woman went into the water, caught hold of the boat
with her crooked stick, drew it to the bank, and lifted little Gerda
out.
And Gerda was so glad to be on dry land again; but she was rather
afraid of the strange old woman.
“But come and tell me who you are, and how you came here,”
said she.
And Gerda told her all; and the old woman shook her head and
said, “A-hem! a-hem!” and when Gerda had told her everything,
and asked her if she had not seen little Kay, the woman answered
that he had not passed there, but he no doubt would come; and she
told her not to be cast down, but taste her cherries, and look at her
flowers, which were finer than any in a picture-book, each of which
could tell a whole story. She then took Gerda by the hand, led her
into the little cottage, and locked the door.
The windows were very high up; the glass was red, blue, and green,
and the sunlight shone through quite wondrously in all sorts of
colors. On the table stood the most exquisite cherries, and Gerda
ate as many as she chose, for she had permission to do so. While she
was eating, the old woman combed her hair with a golden comb,
and her hair curled and shone with a lovely golden color around
that sweet little face, which was so round and so like a rose.
“I have often longed for such a dear little girl,” said the old woman.
“Now you shall see how well we agree together”; and while she
combed little Gerda’s hair, the child forgot her foster-brother Kay
more and more, for the old woman understood magic; but she was
no evil being, she only practised witchcraft a little for her own private amusement, and now she wanted very much to keep little Gerda.
She therefore went out in the garden, stretched out her crooked
stick towards the rose-bushes, which, beautifully as they were blowing, all sank into the earth and no one could tell where they had
stood. The old woman feared that if Gerda should see the roses, she
would then think of her own, would remember little Kay, and run
away from her.
She now led Gerda into the flower-garden. Oh, what odour and
what loveliness was there! Every flower that one could think of, and