64
in the surrounding circle; on him whose eyes burn hotter than the
flames on him, the fire of whose eyes pierces her heart more than
the flames which soon will burn her body to ashes. Can the heart’s
flame die in the flame of the funeral pile?”
“I don’t understand that at all,” said little Gerda.
“That is my story,” said the Lily.
What did the Convolvulus say?
“Projecting over a narrow mountain-path there hangs an old feudal castle. Thick evergreens grow on the dilapidated walls, and around
the altar, where a lovely maiden is standing: she bends over the railing and looks out upon the rose. No fresher rose hangs on the
branches than she; no appleblossom carried away by the wind is
more buoyant! How her silken robe is rustling!
“‘Is he not yet come?’”
“Is it Kay that you mean?” asked little Gerda.
“I am speaking about my story about my dream,” answered the
Convolvulus.
What did the Snowdrops say?
“Between the trees a long board is hanging it is a swing. Two
little girls are sitting in it, and swing themselves backwards and forwards; their frocks are as white as snow, and long green silk ribands
flutter from their bonnets. Their brother, who is older than they
are, stands up in the swing; he twines his arms round the cords to
hold himself fast, for in one hand he has a little cup, and in the
other a clay-pipe. He is blowing soap-bubbles. The swing moves,
and the bubbles float in charming changing colors: the last is still
hanging to the end of the pipe, and rocks in the breeze. The swing
moves. The little black dog, as light as a soap-bubble, jumps up on
his hind legs to try to get into the swing. It moves, the dog falls
down, barks, and is angry. They tease him; the bubble bursts! A
swing, a bursting bubble such is my song!”
“What you relate may be very pretty, but you tell it in so melancholy a manner, and do not mention Kay.”
What do the Hyacinths say?
“There were once upon a time three sisters, quite transparent, and
very beautiful. The robe of the one was red, that of the second blue,
and that of the third white. They danced hand in hand beside the