65
calm lake in the clear moonshine. They were not elfin maidens, but
mortal children. A sweet fragrance was smelt, and the maidens vanished in the wood; the fragrance grew stronger three coffins, and
in them three lovely maidens, glided out of the forest and across the
lake: the shining glow-worms flew around like little floating lights.
Do the dancing maidens sleep, or are they dead? The odour of the
flowers says they are corpses; the evening bell tolls for the dead!”
“You make me quite sad,” said little Gerda. “I cannot help thinking of the dead maidens. Oh! is little Kay really dead? The Roses
have been in the earth, and they say no.”
“Ding, dong!” sounded the Hyacinth bells. “We do not toll for
little Kay; we do not know him. That is our way of singing, the only
one we have.”
And Gerda went to the Ranunculuses, that looked forth from
among the shining green leaves.
“You are a little bright sun!” said Gerda. “Tell me if you know
where I can find my playfellow.”
And the Ranunculus shone brightly, and looked again at Gerda.
What song could the Ranunculus sing? It was one that said nothing
about Kay either.
“In a small court the bright sun was shining in the first days of
spring. The beams glided down the white walls of a neighbor’s house,
and close by the fresh yellow flowers were growing, shining like gold
in the warm sun-rays. An old grandmother was sitting in the air; her
grand-daughter, the poor and lovely servant just come for a short
visit. She knows her grandmother. There was gold, pure virgin gold in
that blessed kiss. There, that is my little story,” said the Ranunculus.
“My poor old grandmother!” sighed Gerda. “Yes, she is longing
for me, no doubt: she is sorrowing for me, as she did for little Kay.
But I will soon come home, and then I will bring Kay with me. It is
of no use asking the flowers; they only know their own old rhymes,
and can tell me nothing.” And she tucked up her frock, to enable
her to run quicker; but the Narcissus gave her a knock on the leg,
just as she was going to jump over it. So she stood still, looked at the
long yellow flower, and asked, “You perhaps know something?” and
she bent down to the Narcissus. And what did it say?
“I can see myself I can see myself! Oh, how odorous I am! Up in