66
the little garret there stands, half-dressed, a little Dancer. She stands
now on one leg, now on both; she despises the whole world; yet she
lives only in imagination. She pours water out of the teapot over a
piece of stuff which she holds in her hand; it is the bodice; cleanliness is a fine thing. The white dress is hanging on the hook; it was
washed in the teapot, and dried on the roof. She puts it on, ties a
saffron-colored kerchief round her neck, and then the gown looks
whiter. I can see myself I can see myself!”
“That’s nothing to me,” said little Gerda. “That does not concern
me.” And then off she ran to the further end of the garden.
The gate was locked, but she shook the rusted bolt till it was loosened, and the gate opened; and little Gerda ran off barefooted into
the wide world. She looked round her thrice, but no one followed
her. At last she could run no longer; she sat down on a large stone,
and when she looked about her, she saw that the summer had passed;
it was late in the autumn, but that one could not remark in the
beautiful garden, where there was always sunshine, and where there
were flowers the whole year round.
“Dear me, how long I have staid!” said Gerda. “Autumn is come.
I must not rest any longer.” And she got up to go further.
Oh, how tender and wearied her little feet were! All around it
looked so cold and raw: the long willow-leaves were quite yellow,
and the fog dripped from them like water; one leaf fell after the
other: the sloes only stood full of fruit, which set one’s teeth on
edge. Oh, how dark and comfortless it was in the dreary world!
Fourth Story. The Prince and Princess
Gerda was obliged to rest herself again, when, exactly opposite to
her, a large Raven came hopping over the white snow. He had long
been looking at Gerda and shaking his head; and now he said, “Caw!
Caw!” Good day! Good day! He could not say it better; but he felt
a sympathy for the little girl, and asked her where she was going all
alone. The word “alone” Gerda understood quite well, and felt how
much was expressed by it; so she told the Raven her whole history,
and asked if he had not seen Kay.