72
and wished her all success. The Raven of the woods, who was now
married, accompanied her for the first three miles. He sat beside
Gerda, for he could not bear riding backwards; the other Raven
stood in the doorway, and flapped her wings; she could not accompany Gerda, because she suffered from headache since she had had
a fixed appointment and ate so much. The carriage was lined inside
with sugar-plums, and in the seats were fruits and gingerbread.
“Farewell! Farewell!” cried Prince and Princess; and Gerda wept,
and the Raven wept. Thus passed the first miles; and then the Raven
bade her farewell, and this was the most painful separation of all.
He flew into a tree, and beat his black wings as long as he could see
the carriage, that shone from afar like a sunbeam.
Fifth Story. The Little Robber Maiden
They drove through the dark wood; but the carriage shone like a
torch, and it dazzled the eyes of the robbers, so that they could not
bear to look at it.
“’Tis gold! ’Tis gold!” they cried; and they rushed forward, seized
the horses, knocked down the little postilion, the coachman, and
the servants, and pulled little Gerda out of the carriage.
“How plump, how beautiful she is! She must have been fed on
nut-kernels,” said the old female robber, who had a long, scrubby
beard, and bushy eyebrows that hung down over her eyes. “She is as
good as a fatted lamb! How nice she will be!” And then she drew
out a knife, the blade of which shone so that it was quite dreadful to
behold.
“Oh!” cried the woman at the same moment. She had been bitten
in the ear by her own little daughter, who hung at her back; and
who was so wild and unmanageable, that it was quite amusing to
see her. “You naughty child!” said the mother: and now she had not
time to kill Gerda.
“She shall play with me,” said the little robber child. “She shall
give me her muff, and her pretty frock; she shall sleep in my bed!”
And then she gave her mother another bite, so that she jumped, and
ran round with the pain; and the Robbers laughed, and said, “Look,