73
how she is dancing with the little one!”
“I will go into the carriage,” said the little robber maiden; and she
would have her will, for she was very spoiled and very headstrong.
She and Gerda got in; and then away they drove over the stumps of
felled trees, deeper and deeper into the woods. The little robber
maiden was as tall as Gerda, but stronger, broader-shouldered, and
of dark complexion; her eyes were quite black; they looked almost
melancholy. She embraced little Gerda, and said, “They shall not
kill you as long as I am not displeased with you. You are, doubtless,
a Princess?”
“No,” said little Gerda; who then related all that had happened to
her, and how much she cared about little Kay.
The little robber maiden looked at her with a serious air, nodded
her head slightly, and said, “They shall not kill you, even if I am
angry with you: then I will do it myself”; and she dried Gerda’s
eyes, and put both her hands in the handsome muff, which was so
soft and warm.
At length the carriage stopped. They were in the midst of the
court-yard of a robber’s castle. It was full of cracks from top to bottom; and out of the openings magpies and rooks were flying; and
the great bull-dogs, each of which looked as if he could swallow a
man, jumped up, but they did not bark, for that was forbidden.
In the midst of the large, old, smoking hall burnt a great fire on
the stone floor. The smoke disappeared under the stones, and had
to seek its own egress. In an immense caldron soup was boiling; and
rabbits and hares were being roasted on a spit.
“You shall sleep with me to-night, with all my animals,” said the
little robber maiden. They had something to eat and drink; and
then went into a corner, where straw and carpets were lying. Beside
them, on laths and perches, sat nearly a hundred pigeons, all asleep,
seemingly; but yet they moved a little when the robber maiden came.
“They are all mine,” said she, at the same time seizing one that was
next to her by the legs and shaking it so that its wings fluttered.
“Kiss it,” cried the little girl, and flung the pigeon in Gerda’s face.
“Up there is the rabble of the wood,” continued she, pointing to
several laths which were fastened before a hole high up in the wall;
“that’s the rabble; they would all fly away immediately, if they were