74
not well fastened in. And here is my dear old Bac”; and she laid hold
of the horns of a reindeer, that had a bright copper ring round its
neck, and was tethered to the spot. “We are obliged to lock this
fellow in too, or he would make his escape. Every evening I tickle
his neck with my sharp knife; he is so frightened at it!” and the little
girl drew forth a long knife, from a crack in the wall, and let it glide
over the Reindeer’s neck. The poor animal kicked; the girl laughed,
and pulled Gerda into bed with her.
“Do you intend to keep your knife while you sleep?” asked Gerda;
looking at it rather fearfully.
“I always sleep with the knife,” said the little robber maiden. “There
is no knowing what may happen. But tell me now, once more, all
about little Kay; and why you have started off in the wide world
alone.” And Gerda related all, from the very beginning: the Woodpigeons cooed above in their cage, and the others slept. The little
robber maiden wound her arm round Gerda’s neck, held the knife
in the other hand, and snored so loud that everybody could hear
her; but Gerda could not close her eyes, for she did not know whether
she was to live or die. The robbers sat round the fire, sang and drank;
and the old female robber jumped about so, that it was quite dreadful for Gerda to see her.
Then the Wood-pigeons said, “Coo! Coo! We have seen little Kay!
A white hen carries his sledge; he himself sat in the carriage of the
Snow Queen, who passed here, down just over the wood, as we lay
in our nest. She blew upon us young ones; and all died except we
two. Coo! Coo!”
“What is that you say up there?” cried little Gerda. “Where
did the Snow Queen go to? Do you know anything about it?”
“She is no doubt gone to Lapland; for there is always snow and ice
there. Only ask the Reindeer, who is tethered there.”
“Ice and snow is there! There it is, glorious and beautiful!” said
the Reindeer. “One can spring about in the large shining valleys!
The Snow Queen has her summer-tent there; but her fixed abode is
high up towards the North Pole, on the Island called Spitzbergen.”
“Oh, Kay! Poor little Kay!” sighed Gerda.
“Do you choose to be quiet?” said the robber maiden. “If you
don’t, I shall make you.”