80
Chinese Puzzle. Kay made all sorts of figures, the most complicated,
for it was an ice-puzzle for the understanding. In his eyes the figures
were extraordinarily beautiful, and of the utmost importance; for
the bit of glass which was in his eye caused this. He found whole
figures which represented a written word; but he never could manage to represent just the word he wanted that word was “eternity”;
and the Snow Queen had said, “If you can discover that figure, you
shall be your own master, and I will make you a present of the whole
world and a pair of new skates.” But he could not find it out.
“I am going now to warm lands,” said the Snow Queen. “I must
have a look down into the black caldrons.” It was the volcanoes
Vesuvius and Etna that she meant. “I will just give them a coating of
white, for that is as it ought to be; besides, it is good for the oranges
and the grapes.” And then away she flew, and Kay sat quite alone in
the empty halls of ice that were miles long, and looked at the blocks
of ice, and thought and thought till his skull was almost cracked.
There he sat quite benumbed and motionless; one would have imagined he was frozen to death.
Suddenly little Gerda stepped through the great portal into the
palace. The gate was formed of cutting winds; but Gerda repeated
her evening prayer, and the winds were laid as though they slept;
and the little maiden entered the vast, empty, cold halls. There she
beheld Kay: she recognised him, flew to embrace him, and cried
out, her arms firmly holding him the while, “Kay, sweet little Kay!
Have I then found you at last?”
But he sat quite still, benumbed and cold. Then little Gerda shed
burning tears; and they fell on his bosom, they penetrated to his
heart, they thawed the lumps of ice, and consumed the splinters of
the looking-glass; he looked at her, and she sang the hymn:
“The rose in the valley is blooming so sweet, And angels descend
there the children to greet.”
Hereupon Kay burst into tears; he wept so much that the splinter
rolled out of his eye, and he recognised her, and shouted, “Gerda,
sweet little Gerda! Where have you been so long? And where have I
been?” He looked round him. “How cold it is here!” said he. “How
empty and cold!” And he held fast by Gerda, who laughed and wept
for joy. It was so beautiful, that even the blocks of ice danced about