81
for joy; and when they were tired and laid themselves down, they
formed exactly the letters which the Snow Queen had told him to
find out; so now he was his own master, and he would have the
whole world and a pair of new skates into the bargain.
Gerda kissed his cheeks, and they grew quite blooming; she kissed
his eyes, and they shone like her own; she kissed his hands and feet,
and he was again well and merry. The Snow Queen might come
back as soon as she liked; there stood his discharge written in resplendent masses of ice.
They took each other by the hand, and wandered forth out of the
large hall; they talked of their old grandmother, and of the roses upon
the roof; and wherever they went, the winds ceased raging, and the
sun burst forth. And when they reached the bush with the red berries,
they found the Reindeer waiting for them. He had brought another,
a young one, with him, whose udder was filled with milk, which he
gave to the little ones, and kissed their lips. They then carried Kay
and Gerda first to the Finland woman, where they warmed themselves in the warm room, and learned what they were to do on their
journey home; and they went to the Lapland woman, who made
some new clothes for them and repaired their sledges.
The Reindeer and the young hind leaped along beside them, and
accompanied them to the boundary of the country. Here the first
vegetation peeped forth; here Kay and Gerda took leave of the Lapland
woman. “Farewell! Farewell!” they all said. And the first green buds
appeared, the first little birds began to chirrup; and out of the wood
came, riding on a magnificent horse, which Gerda knew (it was one
of the leaders in the golden carriage), a young damsel with a brightred cap on her head, and armed with pistols. It was the little robber
maiden, who, tired of being at home, had determined to make a journey to the north; and afterwards in another direction, if that did not
please her. She recognised Gerda immediately, and Gerda knew her
too. It was a joyful meeting.
“You are a fine fellow for tramping about,” said she to little Kay; “I
should like to know, faith, if you deserve that one should run from one
end of the world to the other for your sake?”
But Gerda patted her cheeks, and inquired for the Prince and
Princess.