86
water upon them.
“Do tell me something! Pray do!”
“Yes, if a fairy tale would come of its own accord; but they are
proud and haughty, and come only when they choose. Stop!” said
he, all on a sudden. “I have it! Pay attention! There is one in the teapot!”
And the little boy looked at the tea-pot. The cover rose more and
more; and the Elder-flowers came forth so fresh and white, and shot
up long branches. Out of the spout even did they spread themselves
on all sides, and grew larger and larger; it was a splendid Elderbush,
a whole tree; and it reached into the very bed, and pushed the curtains aside. How it bloomed! And what an odour! In the middle of
the bush sat a friendly-looking old woman in a most strange dress.
It was quite green, like the leaves of the elder, and was trimmed with
large white Elder-flowers; so that at first one could not tell whether
it was a stuff, or a natural green and real flowers.
“What’s that woman’s name?” asked the little boy.
“The Greeks and Romans,” said the old man, “called her a Dryad;
but that we do not understand. The people who live in the New
Booths* have a much better name for her; they call her ‘old
Granny’ and she it is to whom you are to pay attention. Now
listen, and look at the beautiful Elderbush.
“Just such another large blooming Elder Tree stands near the New
Booths. It grew there in the corner of a little miserable court-yard;
and under it sat, of an afternoon, in the most splendid sunshine,
two old people; an old, old seaman, and his old, old wife. They had
great-grand-children, and were soon to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of their marriage; but they could not exactly recollect the
date: and old Granny sat in the tree, and looked as pleased as now.
‘I know the date,’ said she; but those below did not hear her, for
they were talking about old times.
“‘Yes, can’t you remember when we were very little,’ said the old
seaman, ‘and ran and played about? It was the very same court-yard
where we now are, and we stuck slips in the ground, and made a
garden.’