87
“‘I remember it well,’ said the old woman; ‘I remember it quite
well. We watered the slips, and one of them was an Elderbush. It took
root, put forth green shoots, and grew up to be the large tree under
which we old folks are now sitting.’
“‘To be sure,’ said he. ‘And there in the corner stood a waterpail,
where I used to swim my boats.’
“‘True; but first we went to school to learn somewhat,’ said she;
‘and then we were confirmed. We both cried; but in the afternoon
we went up the Round Tower, and looked down on Copenhagen,
and far, far away over the water; then we went to Friedericksberg,
where the King and the Queen were sailing about in their splendid
barges.’
“‘But I had a different sort of sailing to that, later; and that, too,
for many a year; a long way off, on great voyages.’
“‘Yes, many a time have I wept for your sake,’ said she. ‘I thought
you were dead and gone, and lying down in the deep waters. Many
a night have I got up to see if the wind had not changed: and changed
it had, sure enough; but you never came. I remember so well one
day, when the rain was pouring down in torrents, the scavengers
were before the house where I was in service, and I had come up
with the dust, and remained standing at the door it was dreadful
weather when just as I was there, the postman came and gave me
a letter. It was from you! What a tour that letter had made! I opened
it instantly and read: I laughed and wept. I was so happy. In it I read
that you were in warm lands where the coffee-tree grows. What a
blessed land that must be! You related so much, and I saw it all the
while the rain was pouring down, and I standing there with the
dust-box. At the same moment came someone who embraced me.’
“‘Yes; but you gave him a good box on his ear that made it tingle!’
“‘But I did not know it was you. You arrived as soon as your letter,
and you were so handsome that you still are and had a long
yellow silk handkerchief round your neck, and a bran new hat on;
oh, you were so dashing! Good heavens! What weather it was, and
what a state the street was in!’
“‘And then we married,’ said he. ‘Don’t you remember? And then
we had our first little boy, and then Mary, and Nicholas, and Peter,
and Christian.’