88
“‘Yes, and how they all grew up to be honest people, and were
beloved by everybody.’
“‘And their children also have children,’ said the old sailor; ‘yes,
those are our grand-children, full of strength and vigor. It was, methinks
about this season that we had our wedding.’
“‘Yes, this very day is the fiftieth anniversary of the marriage,’ said
old Granny, sticking her head between the two old people; who
thought it was their neighbor who nodded to them. They looked at
each other and held one another by the hand. Soon after came their
children, and their grand-children; for they knew well enough that
it was the day of the fiftieth anniversary, and had come with their
gratulations that very morning; but the old people had forgotten it,
although they were able to remember all that had happened many
years ago. And the Elderbush sent forth a strong odour in the sun,
that was just about to set, and shone right in the old people’s faces.
They both looked so rosy-cheeked; and the youngest of the grandchildren danced around them, and called out quite delighted, that
there was to be something very splendid that evening they were
all to have hot potatoes. And old Nanny nodded in the bush, and
shouted ‘hurrah!’ with the rest.”
“But that is no fairy tale,” said the little boy, who was listening to
the story.
“The thing is, you must understand it,” said the narrator; “let us
ask old Nanny.”
“That was no fairy tale, ’tis true,” said old Nanny; “but now it’s
coming. The most wonderful fairy tales grow out of that which is
reality; were that not the case, you know, my magnificent Elderbush
could not have grown out of the tea-pot.” And then she took the little
boy out of bed, laid him on her bosom, and the branches of the Elder
Tree, full of flowers, closed around her. They sat in an aerial dwelling,
and it flew with them through the air. Oh, it was wondrous beautiful!
Old Nanny had grown all of a sudden a young and pretty maiden;
but her robe was still the same green stuff with white flowers, which
she had worn before. On her bosom she had a real Elderflower, and in
her yellow waving hair a wreath of the flowers; her eyes were so large
and blue that it was a pleasure to look at them; she kissed the boy, and
now they were of the same age and felt alike.