89
Hand in hand they went out of the bower, and they were standing
in the beautiful garden of their home. Near the green lawn papa’s
walking-stick was tied, and for the little ones it seemed to be endowed with life; for as soon as they got astride it, the round polished knob was turned into a magnificent neighing head, a long
black mane fluttered in the breeze, and four slender yet strong legs
shot out. The animal was strong and handsome, and away they went
at full gallop round the lawn.
“Huzza! Now we are riding miles off,” said the boy. “We are riding
away to the castle where we were last year!”
And on they rode round the grass-plot; and the little maiden,
who, we know, was no one else but old Nanny, kept on crying out,
“Now we are in the country! Don’t you see the farm-house yonder?
And there is an Elder Tree standing beside it; and the cock is scraping away the earth for the hens, look, how he struts! And now we
are close to the church. It lies high upon the hill, between the large
oak-trees, one of which is half decayed. And now we are by the
smithy, where the fire is blazing, and where the half-naked men are
banging with their hammers till the sparks fly about. Away! away!
To the beautiful country-seat!”
And all that the little maiden, who sat behind on the stick, spoke of,
flew by in reality. The boy saw it all, and yet they were only going
round the grass-plot. Then they played in a side avenue, and marked
out a little garden on the earth; and they took Elder-blossoms from
their hair, planted them, and they grew just like those the old people
planted when they were children, as related before. They went hand
in hand, as the old people had done when they were children; but not
to the Round Tower, or to Friedericksberg; no, the little damsel wound
her arms round the boy, and then they flew far away through all Denmark. And spring came, and summer; and then it was autumn, and
then winter; and a thousand pictures were reflected in the eye and in
the heart of the boy; and the little girl always sang to him, “This you
will never forget.” And during their whole flight the Elder Tree smelt
so sweet and odorous; he remarked the roses and the fresh beeches,
but the Elder Tree had a more wondrous fragrance, for its flowers
hung on the breast of the little maiden; and there, too, did he often
lay his head during the flight.