9
he was other than an ill-favored swineherd, let not a day pass without working at something; he at last constructed a rattle, which,
when it was swung round, played all the waltzes and jig tunes, which
have ever been heard since the creation of the world.
“Ah, that is superbe!” said the Princess when she passed by. “I
have never heard prettier compositions! Go in and ask him the price
of the instrument; but mind, he shall have no more kisses!”
“He will have a hundred kisses from the Princess!” said the lady
who had been to ask.
“I think he is not in his right senses!” said the Princess, and walked
on, but when she had gone a little way, she stopped again. “One
must encourage art,” said she, “I am the Emperor’s daughter. Tell
him he shall, as on yesterday, have ten kisses from me, and may take
the rest from the ladies of the court.”
“Oh but we should not like that at all!” said they. “What are
you muttering?” asked the Princess. “If I can kiss him, surely you
can. Remember that you owe everything to me.” So the ladies were
obliged to go to him again.
“A hundred kisses from the Princess,” said he, “or else let everyone
keep his own!”
“Stand round!” said she; and all the ladies stood round her whilst
the kissing was going on.
“What can be the reason for such a crowd close by the pigsty?”
said the Emperor, who happened just then to step out on the balcony; he rubbed his eyes, and put on his spectacles. “They are the
ladies of the court; I must go down and see what they are about!” So
he pulled up his slippers at the heel, for he had trodden them down.
As soon as he had got into the court-yard, he moved very softly,
and the ladies were so much engrossed with counting the kisses,
that all might go on fairly, that they did not perceive the Emperor.
He rose on his tiptoes.
“What is all this?” said he, when he saw what was going on, and
he boxed the Princess’s ears with his slipper, just as the swineherd
was taking the eighty-sixth kiss.
“March out!” said the Emperor, for he was very angry; and both
Princess and swineherd were thrust out of the city.
The Princess now stood and wept, the swineherd scolded, and the