90
“It is lovely here in spring!” said the young maiden. And they
stood in a beech-wood that had just put on its first green, where the
woodroof* at their feet sent forth its fragrance, and the pale-red
anemony looked so pretty among the verdure. “Oh, would it were
always spring in the sweetly-smelling Danish beech-forests!”
“It is lovely here in summer!” said she. And she flew past old castles
of by-gone days of chivalry, where the red walls and the embattled
gables were mirrored in the canal, where the swans were swimming,
and peered up into the old cool avenues. In the fields the corn was
waving like the sea; in the ditches red and yellow flowers were growing; while wild-drone flowers, and blooming convolvuluses were
creeping in the hedges; and towards evening the moon rose round
and large, and the haycocks in the meadows smelt so sweetly. “This
one never forgets!”
“It is lovely here in autumn!” said the little maiden. And suddenly
the atmosphere grew as blue again as before; the forest grew red,
and green, and yellow-colored. The dogs came leaping along, and
whole flocks of wild-fowl flew over the cairn, where blackberrybushes were hanging round the old stones. The sea was dark blue,
covered with ships full of white sails; and in the barn old women,
maidens, and children were sitting picking hops into a large cask;
the young sang songs, but the old told fairy tales of mountain-sprites
and soothsayers. Nothing could be more charming.
“It is delightful here in winter!” said the little maiden. And all the
trees were covered with hoar-frost; they looked like white corals; the
snow crackled under foot, as if one had new boots on; and one
falling star after the other was seen in the sky. The Christmas-tree
was lighted in the room; presents were there, and good-humor
reigned. In the country the violin sounded in the room of the peasant; the newly-baked cakes were attacked; even the poorest child
said, “It is really delightful here in winter!”
Yes, it was delightful; and the little maiden showed the boy everything; and the Elder Tree still was fragrant, and the red flag, with
the white cross, was still waving: the flag under which the old seaman in the New Booths had sailed. And the boy grew up to be a lad,