91
and was to go forth in the wide world-far, far away to warm lands,
where the coffee-tree grows; but at his departure the little maiden
took an Elder-blossom from her bosom, and gave it him to keep;
and it was placed between the leaves of his Prayer-Book; and when
in foreign lands he opened the book, it was always at the place where
the keepsake-flower lay; and the more he looked at it, the fresher it
became; he felt as it were, the fragrance of the Danish groves; and
from among the leaves of the flowers he could distinctly see the
little maiden, peeping forth with her bright blue eyes and then
she whispered, “It is delightful here in Spring, Summer, Autumn,
and Winter”; and a hundred visions glided before his mind.
Thus passed many years, and he was now an old man, and sat
with his old wife under the blooming tree. They held each other by
the hand, as the old grand-father and grand-mother yonder in the
New Booths did, and they talked exactly like them of old times, and
of the fiftieth anniversary of their wedding. The little maiden, with
the blue eyes, and with Elder-blossoms in her hair, sat in the tree,
nodded to both of them, and said, “To-day is the fiftieth anniversary!” And then she took two flowers out of her hair, and kissed
them. First, they shone like silver, then like gold; and when they
laid them on the heads of the old people, each flower became a
golden crown. So there they both sat, like a king and a queen, under
the fragrant tree, that looked exactly like an elder: the old man told
his wife the story of “Old Nanny,” as it had been told him when a
boy. And it seemed to both of them it contained much that resembled their own history; and those parts that were like it pleased
them best.
“Thus it is,” said the little maiden in the tree, “some call me ‘Old
Nanny,’ others a ‘Dryad,’ but, in reality, my name is ‘Remembrance’;
’tis I who sit in the tree that grows and grows! I can remember; I can
tell things! Let me see if you have my flower still?”
And the old man opened his Prayer-Book. There lay the Elderblossom, as fresh as if it had been placed there but a short time
before; and Remembrance nodded, and the old people, decked with
crowns of gold, sat in the flush of the evening sun. They closed their
eyes, and and ! Yes, that’s the end of the story!
The little boy lay in his bed; he did not know if he had dreamed