94
melody was sweeter than the tones of the bell. The king of the country
was also observant of it, and vowed that he who could discover
whence the sounds proceeded, should have the title of “Universal
Bell-ringer,” even if it were not really a bell.
Many persons now went to the wood, for the sake of getting the
place, but one only returned with a sort of explanation; for nobody
went far enough, that one not further than the others. However, he
said that the sound proceeded from a very large owl, in a hollow
tree; a sort of learned owl, that continually knocked its head against
the branches. But whether the sound came from his head or from
the hollow tree, that no one could say with certainty. So now he got
the place of “Universal Bell-ringer,” and wrote yearly a short treatise
“On the Owl”; but everybody was just as wise as before.
It was the day of confirmation. The clergyman had spoken so touchingly, the children who were confirmed had been greatly moved; it
was an eventful day for them; from children they become all at once
grown-up-persons; it was as if their infant souls were now to fly all at
once into persons with more understanding. The sun was shining
gloriously; the children that had been confirmed went out of the town;
and from the wood was borne towards them the sounds of the unknown bell with wonderful distinctness. They all immediately felt a
wish to go thither; all except three. One of them had to go home to
try on a ball-dress; for it was just the dress and the ball which had
caused her to be confirmed this time, for otherwise she would not
have come; the other was a poor boy, who had borrowed his coat and
boots to be confirmed in from the innkeeper’s son, and he was to give
them back by a certain hour; the third said that he never went to a
strange place if his parents were not with him that he had always
been a good boy hitherto, and would still be so now that he was
confirmed, and that one ought not to laugh at him for it: the others,
however, did make fun of him, after all.
There were three, therefore, that did not go; the others hastened
on. The sun shone, the birds sang, and the children sang too, and
each held the other by the hand; for as yet they had none of them
any high office, and were all of equal rank in the eye of God.
But two of the youngest soon grew tired, and both returned to
town; two little girls sat down, and twined garlands, so they did not