95
go either; and when the others reached the willow-tree, where the
confectioner was, they said, “Now we are there! In reality the bell
does not exist; it is only a fancy that people have taken into their
heads!”
At the same moment the bell sounded deep in the wood, so clear
and solemnly that five or six determined to penetrate somewhat
further. It was so thick, and the foliage so dense, that it was quite
fatiguing to proceed. Woodroof and anemonies grew almost too
high; blooming convolvuluses and blackberry-bushes hung in long
garlands from tree to tree, where the nightingale sang and the sunbeams were playing: it was very beautiful, but it was no place for
girls to go; their clothes would get so torn. Large blocks of stone lay
there, overgrown with moss of every color; the fresh spring bubbled
forth, and made a strange gurgling sound.
“That surely cannot be the bell,” said one of the children, lying
down and listening. “This must be looked to.” So he remained, and
let the others go on without him.
They afterwards came to a little house, made of branches and the
bark of trees; a large wild apple-tree bent over it, as if it would shower
down all its blessings on the roof, where roses were blooming. The
long stems twined round the gable, on which there hung a small
bell.
Was it that which people had heard? Yes, everybody was unanimous on the subject, except one, who said that the bell was too
small and too fine to be heard at so great a distance, and besides it
was very different tones to those that could move a human heart in
such a manner. It was a king’s son who spoke; whereon the others
said, “Such people always want to be wiser than everybody else.”
They now let him go on alone; and as he went, his breast was
filled more and more with the forest solitude; but he still heard the
little bell with which the others were so satisfied, and now and then,
when the wind blew, he could also hear the people singing who
were sitting at tea where the confectioner had his tent; but the deep
sound of the bell rose louder; it was almost as if an organ were
accompanying it, and the tones came from the left hand, the side
where the heart is placed. A rustling was heard in the bushes, and a
little boy stood before the King’s Son, a boy in wooden shoes, and