96
with so short a jacket that one could see what long wrists he had.
Both knew each other: the boy was that one among the children
who could not come because he had to go home and return his
jacket and boots to the innkeeper’s son. This he had done, and was
now going on in wooden shoes and in his humble dress, for the bell
sounded with so deep a tone, and with such strange power, that
proceed he must.
“Why, then, we can go together,” said the King’s Son. But the
poor child that had been confirmed was quite ashamed; he looked
at his wooden shoes, pulled at the short sleeves of his jacket, and
said that he was afraid he could not walk so fast; besides, he thought
that the bell must be looked for to the right; for that was the place
where all sorts of beautiful things were to be found.
“But there we shall not meet,” said the King’s Son, nodding at the
same time to the poor boy, who went into the darkest, thickest part
of the wood, where thorns tore his humble dress, and scratched his
face and hands and feet till they bled. The King’s Son got some
scratches too; but the sun shone on his path, and it is him that we
will follow, for he was an excellent and resolute youth.
“I must and will find the bell,” said he, “even if I am obliged to go
to the end of the world.”
The ugly apes sat upon the trees, and grinned. “Shall we thrash
him?” said they. “Shall we thrash him? He is the son of a king!”
But on he went, without being disheartened, deeper and deeper
into the wood, where the most wonderful flowers were growing.
There stood white lilies with blood-red stamina, skyblue tulips, which
shone as they waved in the winds, and apple-trees, the apples of
which looked exactly like large soapbubbles: so only think how the
trees must have sparkled in the sunshine! Around the nicest green
meads, where the deer were playing in the grass, grew magnificent
oaks and beeches; and if the bark of one of the trees was cracked,
there grass and long creeping plants grew in the crevices. And there
were large calm lakes there too, in which white swans were swimming, and beat the air with their wings. The King’s Son often stood
still and listened. He thought the bell sounded from the depths of
these still lakes; but then he remarked again that the tone proceeded
not from there, but farther off, from out the depths of the forest.