99
buttons, and a wig that one could see was a real wig. Every morning
there came an old fellow to him who put his rooms in order, and
went on errands; otherwise, the old man in the plush breeches was
quite alone in the old house. Now and then he came to the window
and looked out, and the little boy nodded to him, and the old man
nodded again, and so they became acquaintances, and then they
were friends, although they had never spoken to each other but
that made no difference. The little boy heard his parents say, “The
old man opposite is very well off, but he is so very, very lonely!”
The Sunday following, the little boy took something, and wrapped
it up in a piece of paper, went downstairs, and stood in the doorway; and when the man who went on errands came past, he said to
him 
“I say, master! will you give this to the old man over the way from
me? I have two pewter soldiers this is one of them, and he shall
have it, for I know he is so very, very lonely.”
And the old errand man looked quite pleased, nodded, and took
the pewter soldier over to the old house. Afterwards there came a
message; it was to ask if the little boy himself had not a wish to
come over and pay a visit; and so he got permission of his parents,
and then went over to the old house.
And the brass balls on the iron railings shone much brighter than
ever; one would have thought they were polished on account of the
visit; and it was as if the carved-out trumpeters for there were
trumpeters, who stood in tulips, carved out on the door blew with
all their might, their cheeks appeared so much rounder than before.
Yes, they blew ”Trateratra! The little boy comes! Trateratra!” 
and then the door opened.
The whole passage was hung with portraits of knights in armor,
and ladies in silken gowns; and the armor rattled, and the silken
gowns rustled! And then there was a flight of stairs which went a
good way upwards, and a little way downwards, and then one came
on a balcony which was in a very dilapidated state, sure enough,
with large holes and long crevices, but grass grew there and leaves
out of them altogether, for the whole balcony outside, the yard, and
the walls, were overgrown with so much green stuff, that it looked
like a garden; only a balcony. Here stood old flower-pots with faces